RECORD #202384


015398498 | TGH | 51454992 | | 4793064 | 3/13/2005 12:00:00 AM | GRAND POSITIVE BACTEREMIA | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 6/24/2005 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 7/7/2005
ATTENDING: NAVAS , ROBT MD
DISPOSITION: Short-term rehab.
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS: MSSA bacteremia.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This is an 87-year-old man with a
history of bioprosthetic aortic valve , status post PPM and ICD
placement , who is transferred from Ties The Whiash County Hospital for workup
of bacteremia and concern for sepsis and endocarditis with early
evidence of multiorgan failure. He is 13 years' status post
bioprosthetic aortic valve replacement and also has a history of
afib with diastolic heart failure and a permanent pacemaker , on
Coumadin therapy. Ten days prior to admission to the Josesanderstlake Medical ,
he had extraction of all his remaining teeth. Following that , he
had a gradual onset of malaise , shortness of breath , and general
weakness. He was admitted to Sonbyrd Lanor Community Hospital following a
fall to the ground where he was found to be febrile with
leukocytosis and there was a question of left lower lobe
infiltrate. Blood cultures at Kimau Hospital Of quickly returned positive
with Staphylococcus aureus. PE was performed , which was negative
for vegetation , but the patient's oxygen requirement increased
and his blood pressure seemed to be dropping , and thus he was
transferred to Lo Memorial Hospital for further workup and management.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Afib , hypertension , diastolic dysfunction ,
echo in 1999 with moderate concentric LVH and EF of 65% , right
heart catheterization in 2000 showed elevated right heart filling
pressures and wedge pressure which increased with exercise ,
cardiac output of 4.4 , status post 27-mm bioprosthetic AVR and
ascending two grafts in 1992 , afib with diastolic heart failure ,
left bundle-branch block , permanent pacemaker , hypothyroidism ,
type II diabetes , obesity , distant cholecystectomy , AAA , status
post repair ( ? ) , thrombocytopenia , gout , prostate cancer , status
post hormone therapy , and diabetes mellitus.
MEDICATIONS: Medications on admission were lisinopril 5 q.o.d. ,
allopurinol 100 b.i.d. , glyburide 6.25 q. day , levothyroxine 100 ,
Zoloft 50 , Protonix 40 , Lasix 60 , and Coumadin 2.5.
ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies.
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient lives with his daughter who is very
supportive and his wife in Ver He is retired. No
history of tobacco or alcohol.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: On exam , the patient appeared ill. He was
slightly lethargic. Slightly uncomfortable. His oxygen was 96%
on 4 L of oxygen. Heart rate 70s. Blood pressure in the low
80s. Temperature 99.1. HEENT: Notable for slightly elevated
JVP. His lungs showed decreased breath sounds at the left and
right base with rales up to one-third on the right side. His PMI
was nondisplaced. He was in an irregular S1 , normal S2 with no
rubs or gallops. There was a 1/6 systolic murmur at the base.
JVP was approximately 15 cm. Pulses were 2+ and equal
bilaterally. No clubbing , cyanosis , or edema. He was oriented
to person , time , and generally to place , but not to date. His
remainder of neurological exam was grossly intact.
LABS ON ADMISSION: Notable for a potassium of 4.3 , BUN 36 ,
creatinine 2.5 , white count 8.1 , hematocrit 39.4 , CK and
troponins were negative , and INR 2.0. Chest x-ray on admission
showed a question of a left lower lobe infiltrate by report. It
also revealed a left pleural effusion with a question of
infiltrate and a right pleural effusion. EKG showed afib , left
axis deviation , and left bundle-branch block. Echo done at the
bedside shows an EF of approximately 45% to 50% without gross
regional wall motion abnormalities with some paradoxical motion
consistent with left bundle-branch block. There is no obvious
vegetation , but this was a limited study.
HOSPITAL COURSE AND PLAN PER SYSTEM:
Shortly after admission to the Cardiology Team , the patient
continued to have borderline blood pressures. His blood cultures
again grew out MSSA and his oxygen requirement increased and he
was transferred to the CCU for central monitoring and further
supportive care. In the CCU , he was continued on antibiotics.
Initially , the patient was on vancomycin for concern for MRSA.
When his cultures came back , he was switched over initially to
Ancef and gentamicin and then on consultation with ID to
nafcillin. The patient briefly required pressors , but then after
receiving IV fluids and continued antibiotics , his blood pressure
normalized to approximately 90 to 100.
Remainder of hospital course by system:
1. ID: The patient had repeated Gram-positive bacteremia with
MSSA up until the March , 2005 , after which time his daily
cultures have shown no growth to date. As above , the patient
will be maintained on nafcillin , gentamicin was discontinued , and
the patient was started in rifampin on 7/28/05 , both antibiotics
which he should continue for at least 4 to 6 weeks. Daily blood
cultures do not need to be resumed unless the patient has a
temperature at which point he should be cultured. He has been
afebrile for the last 3 to 4 days prior to discharge. We did not
do a TEE as the patient is likely not a surgical candidate and he
was felt to be at very high risk of intubation , should he become
septic again or spike temperatures this would be reconsidered.
In the interim , the patient should continue with antibiotics and
follow up with ID Clinic in approximately 3 to 4 weeks.
2. Cardiac:
Ischemia: The patient had a very small troponin leak of 0.15 on
January , 2005 , otherwise his troponins were negative. This was
likely demand ischemia in the setting of sepsis. After the
patient's blood pressure improved , we started him on a low-dose
beta-blocker , which he should continue. We held his ACE as his
blood pressure was generally about 90 to 100. If his blood
pressure improves slightly , we would recommend restarting the ACE
as an outpatient.
Pump: The patient has a history of diastolic heart failure and
an EF of 40%. He was slightly fluid overloaded after transfer
back from the CCU in the setting of getting fluids for sepsis.
He was diuresed intermittently very gently with IV Lasix at 20 ,
which seemed to improve the patient's shortness of breath and
wheezing , which correlated with the patient being more wet. He
was restarted on his own Lasix of 60 , for which he should
continue and also recommend having the patient receive daily
weight checks and to adjust Lasix in order to maintain daily
weight.
Rhythm: The patient is afib with left bundle-branch block
occasionally and RVR at Ening Health , which seemed to
correlate with fevers. But , he had a normal rate while inhouse
especially while on beta-blocker. He has an AICD , which seemed
to be working fine inhouse as well as a pacemaker.
2. Pulmonary: The patient has maintained on 2 to 3 liters at
which he is saturating at 93% to a 100%. He will likely need
oxygen for a few more days as some of his remaining fluid is
taken off. Please check oxygen saturations daily and titrate off
oxygen as he is able to.
3. Renal: The patient is with chronic renal insufficiency ,
baseline of 1.7. His range in the hospital was 1.7 to 2.5.
Pheno was checked which was approximate 33% and he did not have
any urine Eos or caths to suggest allergic interstitial nephritis
or ATN. Please repeat a creatinine in one week to ensure that it
remains stable. I suspect that as some of his fluid is taken
off , his flow will be better and his creatinine will be slightly
improved.
4. Endo: The patient is with diabetes. He was initially on
Portland protocol while in the Intensive Care Unit. On the
floor , he was maintained on NPH and a Regular Insulin sliding
scale. He should continue on NPH and this should be titrated in
order to maximize blood sugar control , so he should continue on a
Regular Insulin sliding scale. Once the patient is ready for
discharge to home , he should be switched back to his oral
hypoglycemics.
5. Heme: We held the patient's Coumadin or anticoagulation as
it is contraindicated in the setting of endocarditis. Now that
his sepsis seems to resolve , the patient should be restarted on
his Coumadin in approximately 3 to 4 days after discharge with a
goal of an INR of 2 to 3.
6. Psyche: The patient remained generally oriented to person
and situation to hospital while inhouse , but occasionally slide
down especially in the setting of having fevers. He was
continued on his home Zoloft and we added a small dose of
Zyprexa , which seemed to also help. The patient benefits from
regular reorientation which we suggest continuing.
7. Prophylaxis: The patient is to receive heparin t.i.d. and
PPI for DVT and ulcer prophylaxis respectively.
8. Access: The patient now has a PIC line , which is in place
and can be used for IV antibiotics.
DISCHARGE DIET: His discharge diet is a 2-g sodium ADA 1800 to
2000 calories per day , low saturated fat , low cholesterol , and
mechanical soft.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: His discharge medications are as follows;
Tylenol 650 mg p.o. q. 6h. p.r.n. pain or temperature , aspirin 81
mg daily , Colace 100 b.i.d. , Lasix 60 p.o. daily , heparin 5000
units subcutaneous t.i.d. , NPH 16 units q.p.m. , Regular insulin
sliding scale a.c. and h.s. , Levoxyl 100 mcg daily , rifampin 300
mg p.o. b.i.d. , Zoloft 50 p.o. daily , Atrovent nebulizer 0.5 mg
nebs q.4h. p.r.n. wheezing , nafcillin 2 g IV q. 4h , Zyprexa 2.5
mg p.o. nightly , miconazole 2% powder topical b.i.d. to rash ,
Advair Diskus 250/50 one puff inhaled b.i.d. , Duoneb q. 6h.
p.r.n. wheezing , Protonix 40 mg daily , Toprol XL 25 mg p.o.
daily , and allopurinol 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.
TO DO: The patient should follow up with his cardiologist Dr.
Gebauer and his PCP Dr. Lowell Blass once discharged from short-term
rehab. In addition , the patient should be seen by ID Clinic in
approximately 3 weeks to discuss remaining antibiotic therapy.
In addition , the patient should have a set of labs drawn in
approximately 5 to 7 days to recheck his creatinine. Please
check blood cultures if the patient has a temperature. Please
assess the NPH regimen as above. Please restart his Coumadin at
2.5 mg in 3 days with a goal INR of 2.3.
eScription document: 5-8609896 ISFocus transcriptionists
CC: Blake A. Oldridge MD , PhD
Likan Parkway
CC: Rodolfo Gersch M.D.
Cardiology Division , Mayland Nicare Hospital
En Bajuanwoodale Jo
Dictated By: SAUCER , WES
Attending: ORKWIS , DUNCAN
Dictation ID 7177175
D: 0/1/05
T: 0/1/05
[report_end]
