RECORD #311029


977738472 | SMH | 18689855 | | 4958434 | 8/24/2007 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 10/12/2007 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 8/24/2007
ATTENDING: CAGEY , COY MD
SERVICE:
Cardiology.
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS:
Coronary artery disease.
LIST OF PROBLEMS:
1. Coronary artery disease.
2. Status post MI.
3. Diabetes mellitus.
4. Hospital-acquired pneumonia.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:
Mr. Zaspel is a 75-year-old female with diabetes , coronary artery
disease , status post CABG in 1995 , recent MIBI , stress test in
August with a small area of reversible ischemia inferiorly who had
peripheral vascular disease , right CVA status post IVC filter for
DVT , triple AAA , status post repair , COPD , who presented to
One Memorial Hospital with nausea of unclear source and deep lateral
T wave inversions in EKG leads V2-V6. She has noted intermittent
fevers at home to 102 and sent into the Camptown On Memorial Hospital by her
VNA. Please see discharge summary from Sheyfle Hospital for
more details. She was at that time on treatment for a left foot
diabetic ulcer on Augmentin. Over the last week prior to
admission , she had increasing nausea , diarrhea without abdominal
pain. She did have mild fevers and increased cough though she
had no chest pain , orthopnea or urinary complaints. At the
Cea Sto Valley Hospital , they noted that she had deep T-wave inversions
laterally and she was ruled out for DCS by cardiac enzymes. They
transferred her to Burns Memorial Health Care for consideration
of cardiac catheterization.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1. Type II diabetes complicated by peripheral neuropathy.
2. Coronary artery disease status post CABG in 1995.
3. Congestive heart failure.
4. COPD.
5. Peripheral vascular disease.
6. Hypertension.
7. Chronic kidney disease.
8. Abdominal aortic aneurysm , status post repair.
9. Carotid disease status post right CEA.
10. DVT status post IVC filter.
11. Diverticulitis , status post sigmoid colectomy.
12. Gout.
13. Left foot diabetic ulcer , has been treated with multiple
different antibiotic courses including levofloxacin , Flagyl , and
nasalide , as well as Augmentin.
MEDICATIONS PRIOR TO ADMISSION:
1. Augmentin 875 mg p.o. b.i.d.
2. OxyContin 8 mg p.o. t.i.d. p.r.n.
3. Tylenol as needed.
4. Tessalon perles p.r.n.
5. Ativan 0.5 at bedtime p.r.n.
6. Atrovent nebulizer p.r.n.
7. Lasix 30 mg p.o. daily.
8. Glipizide 2.5 mg p.o. daily.
9. Gabapentin 300 mg p.o. t.i.d.
10. Multivitamin.
11. Atenolol 25 mg p.o. daily.
12. Allopurinol 100 mg p.o. daily.
13. Aspirin 81 mg daily.
14. Lipitor 40 mg daily.
ALLERGY/ADVERSE DRUG REACTIONS:
1. Sulfa , the allergic reaction is unclear , although it has
noted anaphylaxis on previous discharge summaries.
2. Theophylline causes tongue swelling.
3. Quinine reaction unclear.
4. Iodine/IV contrast. This is noted in the medical record.
However , the patient does not remember having an adverse reaction
or allergic reaction to IV contrast.
5. Iron , this reaction is unknown.
6. Erythromycin , again , the patient does not remember any
reaction , but apparently has hives.
7. Levofloxacin , unclear what the reaction is. She has
tolerated this in May , which she was treated for a foot
ulcer. It is not clear if this is a rash or it was thought to be
possibly related to a fever that the patient had , but it is not
clear what the actual reaction is.
SOCIAL HISTORY:
The patient is an 80-pack-year smoker. He is currently smoking.
PHYSICAL EXAM ON ADMISSION:
Her temperature was 99 , her pulse was 98 , her blood pressure was
105/55. Her respiratory rate was 18 when she was saturating 94%
on room air. In general , she is in no acute distress. Her HEENT
exam was unremarkable. Her cardiac exam was regular rate and
rhythm with a 2/6 systolic murmur at the apex. Her lung exam was
notable for crackles most prominent in the left lower lobe. Her
abdomen was soft , obese , nontender and nondistended with good
bowel sounds. Her extremities were significant for erythema of
the left shin without warmth or tenderness. She also had a small
1.5 cm ulceration on the bottom of her left foot which has been
present for sometime although she says that it looks better than
at first. There was no purulence or purulent drainage from the
wound. Her neurologic exam was unremarkable.
LABORATORY DATA ON ADMISSION:
Her labs were notable for a creatinine of 1.6 , a white count of
4.1 , with 11% eosinophils. Her hematocrit was 31.6 , and her
albumin was 3.
PROCEDURES:
Cardiac catheterization: it was done by Dr. Eeds .
FINDINGS:
Showed a right dominant circulation. There were no significant
left main lesions identified. The LAD had a tubular 90% lesion
and the diagonal I had a proximal tubular 60% lesion , there was
also a diffuse 80% lesion of the proximal circumflex. The RCA
had a proximal 75% lesion with a mid diffuse 60% lesion and a PLV
tubular 70% lesion. The coronary artery bypass grafts had a
patent LIMA to LAD graft , the SVG to marginal I had a 100% lesion
during this catheterization due to the moderate amount of
contrast and the patient's chronic kidney disease , they treated
the RCA and placed a 3 x 24 mm Taxus stent
ECHOCARDIOGRAM:
On 11/0/07 , showed an estimated ejection fraction of 50% with
inferoseptal and inferior severe hypokinesis. The RV was normal.
There was mild aortic stenosis. Mild-to-moderate aortic
regurgitation. The valve area was 1.2 cm2. There was mild
mitral regurgitation. There is trace tricuspid regurgitation
with a pulmonary artery systolic pressure of 36 mm plus right
atrial pressure.
HOSPITAL COURSE BY PROBLEM:
1. Cardiovascular:
a. Ischemia: The patient was admitted because they had deep T
wave inversions in the lateral leads and are still concerning for
anginal equivalence of nausea and vomiting. It was decided on
admission that an echocardiogram would be performed and if there
was evidence of any regional wall motion abnormalities that she
would be taken directly to cath. The echocardiogram as noted
above showed inferior hypokinesis consistent with coronary artery
disease. She was taken to the cath lab on 11/2/07 and they show
two ____ that one of the bypass grafts was completely occluded
and was not visualized. They also saw that there was a proximal
RCA lesion 60% which was found to account for the inferior
hypokinesis given the right arm circulation. This was stented
with a Taxus stent. Because of her kidney insufficiency , it was
decided not to pursue the 80% left circ lesion and this was
deferred until later point as this was not thought to be causing
any problems. Her post cath ECG was unchanged and continued to
have the deep lateral T wave inversions. She did not complain of
any chest pain or nausea and vomiting during her admission. She
was started on aspirin and Plavix initially although as noted
below she did have an apparent allergy to Plavix and thus was
switched to ticlopidine 250 mg b.i.d. instead of Plavix for
anticoagulation. She was also continued Lipitor 80 mg daily ,
Lopressor 25 mg t.i.d. After her cath , it was originally planned
that she would go back to cath for intervention on the left
circulation lesion , however , given her other medical problems and
her relative stability hemodynamically and symptomatically , it
was decided that they would wait and decide later if this lesion
needed to be corrected in the future or not.
b. Pump: The patient had no significant issues with her blood
pressure here. She remained in a blood pressure range of 100-120
throughout her stay. She was continued on her beta blocker as
noted above. However , at discharge , this was switched back to
atenolol as her home medications and she refused to change
medications , she said that she would not be able to afford new
prescription. We did increase her dose of atenolol to 25 mg
b.i.d. from 25 mg daily as her requirement of beta blockade
seemed to be higher than what her home dose was. Given that she
has a concurrent renal disease , it would probably be useful for
her to be on an ace inhibitor ARB as well. This medication
should be added as an outpatient , if her blood pressure tolerates
it. It was on the lower side here , so we did not add it. We did
not diurese her in fact we held her Lasix on admission because
she seemed to be volume depleted given that she was admitted with
a lot of diarrhea , this again will need to be reconsidered if she
had increased edema. This can be restarted.
C: Rhythm: The patient was kept on telemetry , however , there
were no significant episodes of arrhythmias during her admission.
2. GI: The patient was admitted with persistent nausea and
diarrhea from Tlmamuthes Medical Center .  The diarrhea resolved one day
after admission. Her fecal leukocytes were positive but her C.
diff was negative. It was unclear what the etiology of this
diarrhea was and we were going to send a repeat stool study ,
however , she did not have any diarrhea afterwards and this may be
antibiotics associated diarrhea but it seemed to resolve
spontaneously.
3. Pulmonary: The patient was admitted with crackles in the
left lower lobe and some wheezing consistent with COPD and
pneumonia. A chest x-ray on admission showed a right lower lobe
infiltrate/atelectasis. We initially continued her on Augmentin ,
which she was taking for her diabetic foot ulcer. However , she
did not appear to clinically respond to this medication. We held
her antibiotics as noted below in the ID section and after that
her white blood cell count increased and she produced some
purulent sputum and Gram-negative rods. The Gram-negative rods
were later speciated as serratia although this information is not
available at the time of her discharge. She was treated for a
hospital-acquired pneumonia with vancomycin and ceftazidime to
complete a 14-day course. Clinically , she appeared to improve on
this regimen , although her white count was still elevated at 15
on discharge , however , given her overall clinical stability , the
lack of fevers and the lack of systemic symptoms. We felt
comfortable with discharging her with close follow up.
4. Infectious disease: The patient was initially admitted on
Augmentin for a diabetic foot ulcer , the notes from Grantnas Healthcare by the Infectious Disease Service recommended a 2-4 week
course of Augmentin for her diabetic foot ulcer. She had
completed three weeks of therapy and thus we discontinued this
medication as it did not seem that there was really any evidence
of active infection in her foot. After holding the antibiotics
for three days , her white count began to rise and she developed a
purulent cough as noted above , this was thought to be a
hospital-acquired pneumonia. She was treated with vancomycin and
ceftazidime and she will complete a 14-day course of these
antibiotics.
5. Endocrine: The patient was home on oral hypoglycemics. She
was switched to coverage with an insulin scale. Her sugars were
relatively well controlled and she did not require much in the
way of supplemental insulin.
6. Renal: The patient has chronic kidney disease. Her baseline
creatinine was 1.5-1.6. She was admitted and had a cath. She
was given Mucomyst and bicarbonated fluids for renal protection
during her dilute. Because of the risk for kidneys , the cath was
done with a little amount of dye as possible. Her creatinine
remained stable throughout her admission and settled out at 1.6
of her creatinine which is the baseline.
ALLERGY:
During the patient's admission , it was noted that she developed a
rash on 10/2/06 .  She was seen by the Allergy and Immunology
Service at the request of the cath lab given that there was
concern that she had this rash because of her Plavix. They felt
that this was possible. This was the most likely etiology and in
conjunction with her high eosinophil count it was felt that this
was a drug reaction to the Plavix. She was switched to
ticlopidine 250 mg b.i.d. and her rash appeared to improve. She
was also given claritin as well as put on a brief prednisone
taper given her diffuse rash and her brisk eosinophilia. She
should follow up with Allergy and Immunology in about one month
to see if the rash has resolved and potentially to try
rechallenge with Plavix at that point.
Cellulitis/diabetic foot ulcer: The patient has had a
longstanding diabetic foot ulcer which has been treated by wound
care VNA and was treated at Tha Hospital .  We continued the
Augmentin to a total course of three weeks and then stopped it.
We continued her dressing changes and this will be followed by
the VNA at home. There was no evidence of active infection ,
there was no purulence or erythema around the area of the ulcer
and the erythema around the foot appeared to be stable , this was
most likely chronic venous stasis change and not a true
cellulitis as there was no warmth or tenderness in this region.
CONSULTANTS:
Allergy/Immunology , the attending was Dr. Frija .
PHYSICAL EXAM AT DISCHARGE:
The patient was afebrile. Her pulse was 86 , her blood pressure
was 120/60 , her respiratory rate was 20. She was 92-96% on room
air. In general , she was in no acute distress. Her JVP was
about 7 cm. She had small amount of crackles at bilateral bases.
Her cardiac exam was regular rate and rhythm with normal S1 and
S2. There was a 2/6 systolic murmur most prominent at the left
lower sternal border. Her abdomen is soft , nontender , and
nondistended with good bowel sounds. She had 1+ edema
bilaterally with small amounts of erythema at the distal end of
the left lower extremity which has been stable. There is no
associated warmth or tenderness. She did have a 1.5 cm small
ulcer on the ventral aspect of her left foot , which did not have
any purulence associated with it. Her neurologic exam was
nonfocal.
LABORATORY DATA ON ADMISSION:
Notable for a creatinine of 1.5 , a white blood cell count of
15.89 , with 82.7% neutrophils , 3.8% eosinophils. Her hematocrit
was 28.6. Her baseline appears to be around 30.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:
1. Ticlopidine 250 mg by mouth twice a day.
2. Atenolol 25 mg by mouth b.i.d.
3. Lipitor 80 mg daily.
4. Prednisone taper 30 mg on 11/28/07 , 20 mg on 1/17/07 , 10 mg
on 11/28/07 and then stop.
5. Vancomycin 1 g IV daily , course to be completed on 6/21/07 . 
6. Ceftazidime 1 g daily to be complete on 6/21/07 . 
7. Allopurinol 100 mg daily.
8. Neurontin 300 mg three times a day.
9. Tessalon perles as needed.
10. Ativan 0.5 mg at bedtime as needed for sleep.
11. Glipizide 2.5 mg daily.
12. DuoNeb every 4 hours as needed for shortness of breath.
13. Lasix 30 mg by mouth daily.
14. Aspirin 81 mg daily.
DISPOSITION:
Home with services.
PENDING TESTS:
As noted , the patient had a sputum culture that was growing
Gram-negative rods at the time of discharge. The current report
is that it was growing Serratia marcescens which should be staph
sensitive to ceftazidime , which he was prescribed for a total of
14 days.
FOLLOW UP:
She will follow up with Dr. Antony Baldonado on 10/30/07 at 9:30
a.m. She has an appointment scheduled.
TO DO LIST:
1. The patient has an 80% left circumflex lesion which was not
stented. This should be , ___28.20__ , whether she needs a second
intervention in the future. She does appear to be asymptomatic ,
but she does continue to have the deep lateral T wave inversion
suggesting the areas of abnormal blood flow in the heart. It was
thought that the right RCA lesion was more likely to be the cause
of her inferior wall hypokinesis , so that was the procedure
performed.
2. The patient was treated for hospital-acquired pneumonia with
vancomycin and ceftazidime. This will continue until 6/21/07 . 
She was noted to have a rash here which was thought to be Plavix
related. If the rash resolves on ticlopidine , she may need to
readdress whether or not this was actually due to Plavix. It was
recommended that she follow up with an allergist in about a month
from her hospitalization who can review the records and determine
whether she should start Plavix or maintain on the ticlopidine.
3. Her platelets should be monitored given that she started on
ticlopidine and there is a risk of TTP associated with this
medication.
eScription document: 4-7589004 EMSSten Tel
CC: Lenard Prey M.D.
Nor Ties Pro Health Care
Squite Kan Fallsaleri
Dictated By: AUGUSTYN , BURL
Attending: KITE , JAMIE
Dictation ID 8279983
D: 1/17/07
T: 1/5/07
[report_end]
