RECORD #311514
157011241 | SH | 78994491 | | 114569 | 2/5/1995 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 5/0/1995 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 0/21/1995
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Patient is a 42 year old female with a
history of variegate porphyria ,
insulin dependent diabetes , coronary artery disease , status post
coronary artery bypass graft , and hypercholesterolemia who had
experienced five days of confusion , weakness , change in bowel
habits , and fatigue with flashing sensations of anxiety with
emotional lability. Patient had a history of variegate porphyria
for about fifteen years , was followed by Dr. Nigel Wickenhauser , and she
had been relatively free of porphyria attacks with the last major
one approximately twelve years ago with symptoms similar to those
she was experiencing at the time of this admission. In May
1994 , she had a mild porphyria attack which was managed by stopping all
her medications. She intermittently had skin lesions ,
especially with sun exposure. She had never been phlebotomized or
received other treatments. In the past two months , she had been
taking Ativan of 3-4 mg q.d. for anxiety. She stopped taking
Ativan on March , 1995 and after this abrupt stopping of this
medication , she started to have feelings of disorientation ,
confusion , and fatigue with emotional lability. She also was in
Idaho with extensive sun exposure in the last two weeks. She
contacted Dr. Furuya who advised her to increase her carbohydrate
intake to about 400 grams a day , however , her symptoms progressed.
Two days prior to admission , she felt weak and while standing , her
legs gave way without losing consciousness. She felt weak
throughout the week before admission with no vertigo , tinnitus , or
ataxia. She also felt paresthesias of the hands and feet but not
perioral and she also experienced episodes of flushing and
tremulousness with a feeling of rushing sensation in the chest with
no tachycardia associated at the time of this symptomatology. She
had no fevers with the sensation of flushing and feeling of burning
up. She had several bouts of diarrhea intermingled with
constipation. On the day of admission , patient became confused and
disoriented while driving and she came to see Dr. Heyn in the
VVH Clinic. She was admitted for evaluation of a possible
porphyria attack. Of note , the only new medications that she had
been taking was chloral hydrate for the last five days and
Compazine with one dose.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: 1 ) Insulin dependent diabetes. 2 )
Coronary artery disease status post PTCA
times two and a coronary artery bypass graft of the left anterior
descending in 3/21 Exercise tolerance test was noted before
catheterization and she had a catheterization in 7/14 for angina.
She had a patent LIMA graft , 60% proximal left anterior descending
lesion , and 50% right coronary artery stenosis. 3 )
Hypercholesterolemia , did not tolerate cholestyramine. 4 ) Status
post left ulna entrapment release two months ago. 5 )
Hypertension. 6 ) Status post excisional biopsy of the left breast; the
pathology of the lesion was diabetic mastopathy.
ALLERGIES: Morphine which gave her a rash and patient avoided
multiple medications which were known to worsen
porphyria such as sulfa drugs ( not allgergies )
CURRENT MEDICATIONS: At home , patient took insulin NPH 25 units in
the morning with Regular 10 units in the
morning , aspirin 81 mg q.d. , Lopressor 25 mg b.i.d. , Compazine 5 mg
q.6h. p.r.n. anxiety of which she took only one dose , and chloral
hydrate 500 to 1000 mg q.h.s. for five days.
SOCIAL HISTORY: Patient was married for fifteen years with one
son and no history of smoking or ethanol use.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Patient was a pale and anxious white female
in no apparent distress with a temperature
of 99.5 , blood pressure 134/70 , heart rate of 92 , respiratory rate
of 18 , and O2 saturation of 97% on room air. HEENT: Examination
was significant for oropharynx with upper dentures and sclerae were
anicteric. NECK: Supple with no jugular venous distention , no
lymphadenopathy , and thyroid was not palpable. CHEST: Clear to
auscultation bilaterally with no costovertebral angle tenderness.
BREASTS: Examination was notable for fully healed scar of the left
breast. CARDIOVASCULAR: Examination showed a regular rate and
rhythm , normal S1 and S2 , and 2/6 systolic murmur heard best at
the apex. ABDOMEN: Soft with good bowel sounds , non-tender , and
non-distended. EXTREMITIES: 1+ pedal pulses bilaterally and no
clubbing , cyanosis , or edema. SKIN: Examination showed a blister
of the left hand fourth and fifth digit interspace and healed
lesions on the right hand. NEUROLOGICAL: Examination showed her
to be alert and oriented times three with a normal mental status
examination with no confusion noted. Cranial nerves were intact ,
motor was symmetric of 3-4/5 on all muscle groups , sensory
examination was significant for decrease to light touch in the
distal feet and hands , deep tendon reflexes were symmetric and 1-2+
throughout , and coordination showed rapid alternating movements and
finger-to-nose both within normal limits. Gait was mildly wide
based with normal heel-to-toe walk , she had no pronator drift , and
Romberg was positive.
LABORATORY EXAMINATION: On admission was significant for a BUN of
17 , creatinine of 1.0 , glucose was 364 ,
liver function tests were within normal limits , white count was
7.2 , hematocrit was 36 , and platelet count was 266.
HOSPITAL COURSE: Patient was admitted for possible porphyria
attack versus Ativan withdrawal symptoms versus
anxiety attack. Neurology consultation was obtained who felt that
patient's peripheral neuropathy was probably secondary to
longstanding diabetes but felt that some of her symptomatology
could be consistent with porphyria. Patient was also seen by
Psychiatry who felt that this episode was consistent with
generalized anxiety disorder separated by post dysthymia and
suggested phenothiazines which are proven to be safe in porphyria
for treatment. She was started on Trilafon 2 to 4 mg p.o. p.r.n.
q.6h. for anxiety. The patient was also seen to be orthostatic
which was felt to be secondary to dehydration secondary to poor
p.o. intake prior to admission. She was also hyperglycemic on
admission which may have contributed to her dehydration. She was
treated with normal saline boluses and her orthostasis improved.
Her Lopressor was also held with this episode of orthostasis. The
Watson-Schwartz test done by Dr. Mohar on patient very early in the admission
was negative which made an acute porphyria attack very
unlikely. These episodes were felt to be secondary to a
combination of anxiety attack and rapid taper of Ativan which she
had been taking at moderately high doses for the last two months.
Patient also developed urinary tract infection symptoms and her
urine culture showed greater than 100 , 000 colonies of E. coli which
were pansensitive. She was started on Keflex 500 mg p.o. t.i.d.
which is shown to be safe in porphyria.
DISPOSITION: Patient is discharged to home on August in good
condition.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Aspirin 81 mg p.o. q.d. , insulin NPH 25
units subcutaneously q.a.m. , insulin
regular 10 units subcutaneously q.a.m. , Trilafon 2 mg p.o. q.6h. ,
and Keflex 500 mg p.o. t.i.d.
FOLLOW-UP: Follow-up will be with Dr. Dario Rodriquz
Dictated By: BERNARD SYPOLT , M.D. UT0
Attending: JASPER E. FIDO , M.D. XK1
SR568/7648 Batch: 65143
Index No. ZIBANI61IH D: 9/0/95
T: 1/2/95
addendum: Her 24 hour urinary porphobilinogen and delta-aminolevulinic acid
were both normal , corroborating the Watson Schwartz test and ruling out an
acute porphyric attack.
ch97
[report_end]
