RECORD #312287
974640297 | SH | 35378619 | | 2547554 | 9/27/2006 12:00:00 AM | PANCREATITIS | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 6/21/2006 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 7/27/2006
ATTENDING: POLEY , DAVIS RAYFORD HENRY
DATE OF ADMISSION: 5/0/2006.
DATE OF DISCHARGE: 3/0/2006.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This is a 70-year-old female with a
history of hypertension and blindness who presents with three
days of acute abdominal pain , nausea , and vomiting. She
presented in this manner to her ECMHMC Clinic on the date of
admission , and was sent immediately for an abdominal CT , which
was noted to have findings consistent with pancreatitis. At that
time , she was transferred to the Dama Medical Center
emergency department. The patient reports that the pain began in
her upper abdomen three days prior to admission with radiation
throughout the entire abdomen. She was eating soup when she
first noted the acute onset of this pain and then had an episode
of emesis. Since then , she has not been feeling well , and not
been eating much , but did not have any further episodes of
emesis. She did have chills overnight , but no sweats or no
fevers and no diarrhea. Her last bowel movement was three days
prior to admission. The pain was more cramping and burning than
sharp pain. She had never had prior episode like this. She is a
rare drinker , mostly on holidays. Has not had any recent viral
illnesses , although did have a recent flu shot. Did not have any
sick contact. In the Mano Community Hospital emergency
department , she received 1 liter of normal saline through her IV ,
2 mg of morphine IV , and potassium replacement.
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: She also endorsed a small amount of an
intentional weight loss and denied any chest pain , shortness of
breath , cough , or symptoms suggestive of fluid overload.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1. Hypertension.
2. Legal blindness , likely secondary to macular degeneration.
3. Obesity.
4. Osteoarthritis.
5. Status post total hip replacement.
6. Peripheral neuropathy.
7. Status post TAHBSO for fibroids.
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1. Diovan 80 mg p.o. daily.
2. Premarin 0.9 mg p.o. daily.
3. Norvasc 10 mg p.o. daily.
ALLERGIES: Lisinopril causes angioedema.
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient lives alone and is retired , but
previously worked for an epilepsy foundation. She has never
smoked tobacco. Does occasionally drink alcohol and has never
used any illicit drugs.
FAMILY HISTORY: She does have a sister with a history of a
dropped foot , but does not have any family history of diabetes ,
coronary artery disease , cancer , or pancreatitis.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION: The temperature was 100.3 ,
heart rate 95-110 , blood pressure 124-151/60-77 , respiratory rate
of 18 , oxygen saturation of 97% on room air. In general , she was
comfortable and in no acute distress. HEENT , she has chronic
injection on the left conjunctiva , but her oropharynx was clear.
Pupils were equal , round , and reactive , and extraocular movements
were intact. Her neck showed no thyromegaly , no lymphadenopathy ,
and her JVP was flat. Chest with slight bibasilar crackles.
Heart with a regular rate and rhythm , and a 2/6 systolic murmur
at the right upper sternal border without radiation. Abdomen was
soft with decreased bowel sounds throughout and diffuse moderate
tenderness to palpation without rebound , guarding , or Murphy.
Extremities showed trace bilateral pitting edema to the mid shin
that were warm and well perfused with 2+ pulses. Skin showed no
rashes. Neuro exam was alert and oriented x3 and was grossly
nonfocal.
LABORATORY VALUES ON ADMISSION: Significant for chem-7 with
potassium of 2.7 , bicarbonate of 29 with a normal creatinine of
0.7. CBC showed a white blood cell count of 11.7 with 74%
neutrophils , hematocrit of 36.2 , increased from a baseline of 32 ,
platelets of 326 , and MCV was 85. LFTs were slightly elevated
with an AST of 69 , ALT of 92 , alkaline phosphatase of 148 , a
total bilirubin of 1.1. Amylase was 133 , lipase was 86 , albumin
was 3.7 , and a urinalysis showed 2+ ketones , a specific gravity
of 1.112 , no white blood cells , and 2+ squamous epithelial cells.
IMAGING: An EKG showed no change from her prior diffuse T-wave
flattening and T-wave inversion with normal sinus rhythm at 96
beats per minute. Chest x-ray showed tiny bilateral pleural
effusion and a slightly globular heart that was otherwise normal.
An abdominal CT was consistent with pancreatitis with
peripancreatic stranding , and there was stones seen in the
gallbladder; however , there was no common bile duct dilatation
and no pseudocyst or evidence of necrosis in the pancreas.
ASSESSMENT: This is a 70-year-old woman with a history of
hypertension who presented with acute abdominal pain and an
abdominal CT consistent with pancreatitis with gallstones in the
gallbladder , but without evidence of obstruction.
HOSPITAL COURSE BY PROBLEM:
1. GI: Pancreatitis diagnosed by clinical picture. Laboratory
values on CT findings on admission with no evidence of pseudocyst
or necrosis or other surgical complications of pancreatitis.
Though likely etiology for pancreatitis was gallstone given that
there were gallstones seen on her abdominal CT and that she had
elevation of some of her LFTs. She did go on to have a right
upper quadrant ultrasound to reevaluate. The common bile duct
looked not dilated , but right at the upper limits of normal.
Given this borderline values she was also sent for MRCP to rule
out CBD dilatation in the event that she may need cholecystectomy
in the future. The MRCP showed again no evidence of obstruction
of the duct and no evidence of cholecystitis. She was treated
with aggressive IV fluid hydration for the first several days of
admission. Pain controlled with morphine , and was kept n.p.o.
for several days until her pain improved. At this time , her IV
fluids were gradually decreased , and her diet was gradually
advanced as tolerated. By the time of discharge , she was
tolerating a regular diet without any recurrence of her abdominal
pain , nausea , or vomiting , and was not requiring any further pain
medication. Her LFTs , amylase , and lipase normalized within a
few days of treatment early in the hospitalization. She was also
maintained on IV b.i.d. H2 blocker , and then discharged to home
on p.o. Pepcid. Given her stated history of heartburn. She was
given an appointment to follow up with the TH General Surgery
Clinic for evaluation for likely cholecystectomy and instructed
that this would be her plan of care after discharge.
2. Cardiovascular. In terms of ischemia , the patient did have
some T-wave flattening diffusely on her EKG; however , had no
chest pain. This is likely related to her hypokalemia on
presentation. She did rule out for an MI with 3 sets of negative
enzymes and had no EKG changes or telemetry changes concerning
for ischemia and no bouts of chest pain throughout her admission.
In terms of pump , she was aggressively fluid rehydrated , given
her dehydration on admission , and her diagnosis of pancreatitis ,
but did not have any signs of fluid overload at any point during
her hospitalization , and was returned to all p.o. diet without
need for IV fluids prior to discharge. Her blood pressure was
well controlled originally with her home medication of Norvasc
and then with a change to Lopressor in order to obtain good rate
control as well without bouts of hypertension throughout this
admission. In terms of rhythm , the patient did have some
episodes of likely atrial fibrillation versus multifocal atrial
tachycardia on telemetry early in her admission. These episodes
would last only a few seconds and resolved spontaneously and the
patient did not have symptoms from these. This was thought to be
likely related to her acute illness and her hypokalemia on
admission. However , she was started on Lopressor for better rate
control , which was up titrated as needed with good effect. By
the time of discharge , she had had no events on telemetry for
greater than 36 hours. She was discharged on new medication of
Toprol to control her rate and also taking the place of her
Norvasc for her blood pressure control.
3. ID. The patient did have a low-grade temperature on
admission , but this was likely related to her inflammation.
Blood cultures x2 drawn at the time of admission were negative.
The chest x-ray was negative for any growth and finalized before
discharge. Chest x-ray was negative for any evidence of
pneumonia and a urinalysis was negative. She was not started on
any antibiotics throughout the admission.
4. Hematology. The patient has underlying anemia with an
unclear baseline hematocrit given her infrequent labs at this
institution. Her hematocrit was stable between 31 and 36
throughout her hospitalization here and recommended that she
follows up with her primary care provider for further
instructions on her anemia.
5. Fluids , electrolytes , nutrition. The patient was initially
aggressively fluid rehydrated and then changed to maintenance IV
fluids. Thus , her diet was advanced. Potassium and magnesium
were repeated as needed with electrolytes originally checked
twice per day until stabilized. She was originally maintained
n.p.o. and then her diet was gradually advanced as her symptoms
tolerated to a house diet before discharge.
6. Prophylaxis. The patient was maintained on IV b.i.d. , Pepcid
for GI prophylaxis , and Lovenox for DVT prophylaxis.
7. Code status. The patient is DNR/DNI.
DISCHARGE PLAN: The patient is discharged to home with a
visiting nurse to check in on her for medication management ,
nutrition , and home safety evaluation. She has followup
appointments with her primary care provider , Dr. Gahring , and
also with the FNH General Surgery Clinic regarding possible
cholecystectomy. She was instructed not to take her Norvasc any
more and to take instead the Toprol. Also , she was instructed to
call her physician for any new bouts of abdominal pain , fevers ,
or any other worrisome symptoms.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:
1. Toprol-XL 100 mg per day.
2. Pepcid 20 mg p.o. b.i.d.
3. Diovan 80 mg p.o. daily.
4. Premarin 0.9 mg p.o. daily ( however , it is recommended that
her PCP consider weaning off this medication given its known
risks and recent evidence-based literature , and also given the
possible risk of gallstones of this medication ).
eScription document: 3-8225552 NFFocus
Dictated By: PASCUCCI , JOHNIE
Attending: ROHDENBURG , LEONARDO OLIVER
Dictation ID 1071251
D: 11/0/06
T: 6/10/06
[report_end]
