RECORD #317369
894683403 | BH | 81993676 | | 0613834 | 6/5/2005 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 6/5/2005 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date:
ATTENDING: MARIO , KIRK DICK MD
ATTENDING PHYSICIAN: Randolph Reville , M.D.
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: Pseudogout.
ADMISSION DIAGNOSIS: Fever.
OTHER DIAGNOSES: Hypertension , urinary tract infection , and
diabetes.
BRIEF HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Ms. Wendell Garigliano is a
77-year-old female with past medical history notable for
diabetes , urinary incontinence , hypertension and chronic low back
pain who was recently discharged to rehab from Frenchhend Aner Community Hospital on 9/24/05 after a hospitalization which
included medical ICU stay for urosepsis and left lower lobe
pneumonia. During that hospitalization , she developed the issues
with infection but eventually got better and was discharged on
the 8/8/05. At rehab , she initially did well but then
developed on the 8/28/05 fever to 101 and a white count up to
27. She also had some diaphoresis on the 6/16/05. The patient
and the daughter report that she had been improving steadily
until this point. Given the development of these symptoms , while
on levofloxacin and Flagyl since her last discharge , she was
transferred back to the Stanuck Medical Center Emergency Department
for further workup. In the emergency department , her temperature
was 101. The labs were remarkable for white count 27 without
bands , hematocrit of 32.1 , creatinine 1.3 up from her baseline of
1. A urinalysis showed white blood cells too numerous to count
and 2+ bacteria with 3+ yeast. Chest x-ray in the emergency
department showed no definite consolidation and no definite acute
process. At that time , she was alert and oriented. She received
Tylenol , levofloxacin , Flagyl and cefuroxime in the Emergency
Department. Of note , the patient and the daughter report that
the Foley catheter than was present upon discharge from Ale University Medical Center had not been changed at the rehab.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: In terms of her past medical history ,
diabetes secondary to pancreatectomy in the setting of alcohol
abuse in 1959 , multiple mechanical falls in the past 6 to 7
months , spinal stenosis , C3-C4 compression along with cervical
spondylosis , L2-L3 cord compression , gait instability ,
osteoarthritis of the right acromioclavicular joint , shoulders ,
elbows and hands , urinary incontinence , senile dementia , chronic
diarrhea , hypertension , peptic ulcer disease , history of GI
bleed , depression , PPD positive , history of shingles ,
nephrolithiasis , pyelonephritis in 2003 , iron deficiency anemia ,
status post cholecystectomy 2003 and status post splenectomy.
ALLERGIES: Her allergies are to Naprosyn where she develops GI
bleed from that.
MEDICATIONS: Her meds on transfer from rehab were Lopressor ,
metronidazole , levofloxacin , nifedipine , glucagon , Lantus ,
heparin , Pancreas , protein supplement , calcium , Senna , PhosLo ,
iron , Effexor , Nexium , and Paxil.
FAMILY HISTORY: Her family history is noncontributory.
SOCIAL HISTORY: She is retired , used to work at a saloon. She
is status post discharge from Cla Medical Center for
management of pain due to cervical spondylosis. She is widowed ,
two children , does not live alone. Quit smoking 20 years ago.
No alcohol since early 80s. No illicit drug use.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Upon admission , her temperature was 101
down to 97.9 on the floor. Heart rate in the 70s , respiratory
rate 12 , BP 157/75. In general , she was alert , oriented ,
uncomfortable , and easily conversant. HEENT exam: No
lymphadenopathy. Pupils equally round and reactive to light.
Pulmonary exam shows soft bibasilar crackles bilaterally worse on
the left. Cardiovascular: Regular rate and rhythm , normal S1
and S2 , 2/6 systolic ejection murmur at the right sternal border
without radiation. JVP was less than 10. Peripheral pulses full
and symmetric. Abdomen was soft , nondistended , positive bowel
sounds. No tenderness. She had diffuse edema of her lower
extremities bilaterally and lower extremities were also tender to
palpation. Her perineum showed tender erythematous area of
induration surrounding her labia and anus with adherent white
plaques. Neuro: Cranial nerves II through XII intact. Range of
motion on lower extremities is limited by pain.
LABS ON ADMISSION: 27.6 white count and 32.1 hematocrit.
Glucose of 57. Blood smear showed 1+ target cells , ____ , and
tear drops.
HOSPITAL COURSE: She was admitted to the floor.
1. ID. She was initiated on cefuroxime q.12h. , levofloxacin ,
and Flagyl. Urine culture showed greater than 100 , 000 yeast ,
likely explained by persistent Foley catheter and perineal yeast
infection. Her Foley was changed upon admission to the floor.
Blood culture was negative as was the stool culture. The patient
continued to be febrile and had elevated white count despite
antibiotic therapy without fevers , so the antimicrobial therapy
was discontinued on hospital day #3. Evaluation by the
Infectious Disease team with further studies did not yield a
clear source of infection. Therefore , Rheumatology consult was
called.
2. Rheumatology: Evaluation by the Rheumatology Service lead to
joint aspirations performed in the right MCP and right knee
joints , which revealed fluid with around 2000 white blood cells
and both negatively by refringent and positively by refringent
crystals consistent with gout and pseudogout. DVT was ruled out
as a cause of this extremity swelling. The patient was started
on Colchicine with improvement of pain and decrease of joint
swelling. An intraarticular ankle injection of Depo-Medrol was
performed on 0/8/05 with good affect. By the 1/30/05 , the
patient reported marked improvement in her range of motion and
pain control.
3. Endocrine: The patient was initially maintained on her rehab
dose of insulin which was Lantus 18 units at night , aspart 4
units at meals plus a sliding scale of Novolog. However , due to
intermittent decreased p.o. intake , she suffered several episodes
of hypoglycemia with blood sugars in the 30s to 50s. Her insulin
dosing was titrated initially downward and then after she
increased her p.o. intake it was titrated upwards. Pancreatic
enzymes were given with meals.
4. Cardiovascular: Ms. Warner Welman blood pressure was persistently
elevated on her rehab regimen of antihypotensive medication.
Control was achieved in house by titrating her metoprolol up to
75 mg q.i.d. and adding Captopril at 50 mg t.i.d. No hypotension
while in house.
5. Neurologic: Her mental status initially declined at the
beginning of hospitalization. But by hospital day #3 , she began
to improve and became more coherent and alert. Her pain was
controlled on admission as well by both oxycodone and colchicine.
CT myelography was performed on 1/30/05 to evaluate the
patient's spinal stenosis disease. Results are still pending at
the time of this dictation.
6. Renal: Her electrolytes and renal functions were followed
closely in the setting of a recent urosepsis during the last
admission , her creatinine remained less than 1.2 throughout her
hospitalization and her electrolytes were repleted as necessary.
Urine output remained sufficient.
PLAN: Plan was for discharge in stable condition to Riseborgess Health with instructions to follow up her PCP , Aurelio Mahnken , in one
to two weeks after discharge.
CODE STATUS: Full.
Daughter is her health care proxy.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Will be dictated at the time of
discharge.
eScription document: 9-4417569 ISSten Tel
Dictated By: MAINELLO , JOHNSON
Attending: BOTTCHER , MORGAN DARWIN
Dictation ID 7335424
D: 1/30/05
T: 1/30/05
[report_end]
