RECORD #330201


121547079 | RMC | 18332143 | | 750943 | 1/29/1997 12:00:00 AM | R/O MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION | Unsigned | DIS | Admission Date: 7/29/1997 Report Status: Unsigned

Discharge Date: 4/16/1997
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE
PROCEDURES PERFORMED: March , 1997 , coronary artery bypass graft
times three with left internal mammary
artery to left anterior descending artery , saphenous vein graft to
posterior descending artery , and saphenous vein graft to diagonal
one.
HISTORY OF THE PRESENT ILLNESS: Mr. Effner is a 74 year-old
gentleman , status post inferior
myocardial infarction in 1995 , and percutaneous transluminal
coronary angioplasty of the left circumflex in July , 1995. The
patient is also status post stenting of the left anterior
descending artery in July , 1996. After that time , the patient
continued to have chest pain , although with decreased frequency and
intensity. The patient did receive Ticlid for six to eight weeks
following the stenting.
The patient presented with increased frequency and duration of his
chest and epigastric pain. The patient denied shortness of breath ,
orthopnea , paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea , diaphoresis , nausea or
vomiting.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Significant for coronary artery disease ,
hypertension , hyperlipidemia , paroxysmal
atrial fibrillation in 1982 , osteoarthritis and diet controlled
diabetes mellitus.
ALLERGIES: Amoxicillin , which gives him arthritis.
MEDICATIONS: Enteric coated aspirin 325 milligrams p.o. q.d.;
Imdur 120 milligrams p.o. q.a.m. and 60 milligrams
p.o. q.p.m.; Cozaar 100 milligrams p.o. q.a.m.; Atenolol 50
milligrams p.o. q.d.; Norvasc 5 milligrams p.o. b.i.d.
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient has no smoking history and rarely
drinks alcohol.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Sclerae are anicteric. Oropharynx without
lesions. Carotids 2+ without bruits. The
neck is supple. The lungs are clear to auscultation.
Cardiovascular examination is a regular rate and rhythm with an S4.
Normal S1/S2. Abdomen is soft , nontender , nondistended , with
normal active bowel sounds. Extremities are without edema.
Dorsalis pedis pulse and posterior tibial pulse and femoral pulses
are 2+ bilaterally without bruits in the femoral arteries.
Neurological examination is without gross focal abnormality.
LABORATORY DATA: White blood cell count 9.8 , hematocrit 40.8.
Glucose 188 , creatinine 1.8. CK 40.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted to the Medical Service
for management and evaluation of his angina. He
underwent cardiac catheterization on November , 1997 , demonstrating
90% proximal left anterior descending artery stenosis , 99% diagonal
one ostial stenosis; circumflex was okay. The right coronary
artery had a mid stenosis of 50%. The patient arrived in the
Catheterization Lab with mild angina on 200 micrograms per minute
of intravenous nitroglycerin. Post catheterization , the patient
developed 5/10 chest pain with an increasing pulmonary capillary
wedge pressure to 40 and D-waves of 52. Increasing the
nitroglycerin led to resolution of these changes. The patient had
intra-aortic balloon pump placed via the right femoral artery with
return of the wedge to approximately a mean of 6 and his pain was
relieved. The patient returned to the Cardiac Intensive Care Unit
where he underwent aggressive heart rate and blood pressure
control. He was evaluated by Cardiac Surgery and taken to the
Operating Room on March , 1997 , for coronary artery bypass
grafting times three as described above. The patient was
transferred to the Cardiac Intensive Care Unit. Electrocardiogram
remained unchanged. He was extubated without difficulty. The
intra-aortic balloon pump was removed. The patient was noted to
have slight confusion on postoperative day number one and two.
Lopressor was restarted and the patient was gently diuresed. His
chest tubes were discontinued. On postoperative day number three ,
the patient was noted to be slightly more confused with left facial
droop and aphasia that resolved with mild left lid lag in the early
afternoon. The patient was evaluated by Neurology. A head CT scan
was performed , demonstrating no hemorrhage or acute stroke. There
was a small left cerebellar hemisphere lesion that was believed to
be consistent with a lesion that was greater than 24 hours old.
The patient , however , became progressively encephalopathic. The
patient underwent an echocardiogram and carotid studies , which
demonstrated no evidence of embolic source. The patient's
expressive aphasia and facial weakness , however , recurred. The
patient again underwent head CT scan , demonstrating acute right
parietal infarction that appeared cortically based. Given the
recent intra-aortic balloon pump placement , the aorta could not be
ruled out as a source for embolus. Therefore , heparin was started ,
as was Coumadin. The goal INR is 2 to 3. Also the patient had a
history of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation , and although had no
evidence of atrial fibrillation , there was concern over potential
cardiac source for embolization. The patient's aphasia and left
facial droop improved steadily. He was evaluated by the Speech and
Swallowing Service. He had no difficulty with swallowing; however ,
it was felt that he would benefit from language therapy in addition
to his physical therapy and occupational therapy. The remainder of
the patient's course was uncomplicated from a cardiac standpoint.
His chest x-ray prior to discharge demonstrated very small left
sided effusion without any significant failure.
DISPOSITION: The patient will be transferred to rehabilitation
for reconditioning and intensive speech , physical
therapy and occupational therapy. He will follow-up with Data Medical Center
Cardiology in one to two weeks. He will follow-up with Dr. Bost
in four to six weeks. He will receive physical therapy ,
occupational therapy and speech therapy. He must also follow-up
with his internist , as he has been requiring a sliding scale
insulin dosing , with previously diet controlled diabetes.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Tylenol #3 one to two tablets p.o. q.3-4h.
p.r.n. pain; Colace 100 milligrams p.o.
t.i.d.; sliding scale insulin; Lopressor 50 milligrams p.o. b.i.d.;
Coumadin , with goal INR of 2-3 , to be dosed q.d. after checking a
prothrombin time.
Dictated By: ALEC MACKEDANZ , M.D. MK67
Attending: MILES Q. POFFENBERGER , M.D. HB70  DB357/8781
Batch: 4367 Index No. P4HY4R4VIW D: 4/1/97
T: 4/1/97
[report_end]
