RECORD #333151


787442918 | CH | 69807993 | | 4517383 | 6/29/2004 12:00:00 AM | SEPTIC KNEE | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 6/0/2004 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 11/6/2004
ATTENDING: RAFAEL WASKO M.D.
Admitted to the Renal Service.
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS:
Septic arthritis and bacteremia.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:
This is a 54-year-old male with factor IX hemophilia , HCV with
cirrhosis and chronic ascites , HIV , diabetes , end-stage renal
disease on dialysis , and history of multiple infections including
mitral valve endocarditis , and bilateral knee replacement and
left hip replacement who was transferred from rehab with a
painful right knee in a prosthetic joint which was concerning for
a septic joint. He was in his rehab therapy one week prior to
admission when he twisted his knee. He gave him some factor IX
at this time with some relief , but in the intervening time , it
had become more painful , red and swollen , and was unable to walk
without great difficulty where as before he had been tolerating
rehab with a walker without incident. In addition , he had a
temperature to 103.0 degrees , two days prior to admission and was
given vancomycin and gentamicin dialysis the day prior to
admission. The knee , however , continued to worsen , and he has a
significant restriction in range of motion , and he reported to
the emergency department for concern for an infected knee versus
hemarthrosis. He reported some fatigue and decreased p.o.
intake. He did have chills with his fever. He denied any
shortness of breath , chest pain , abdominal pain , nausea , vomiting
or bleeding. Of note , he has chronic ascites , which for the past
three months has required paracentesis three times weekly with a
total of 3 to 4 liters taken off each time. In the emergency
department , he was loaded with factor IX by the hematology
fellow. The knee was then tapped by Orthopedics , which
demonstrated only some dark blood and minimal fluid. He was
admitted to the Renal Service given that he is a dialysis
patient.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1. Hemophilia factor IX deficiency.
2. Hepatitis C virus with cirrhosis and chronic ascites.
3. HIV.
4. End-stage renal disease , on dialysis.
5. Diabetes type 2.
6. History of mitral valve endocarditis , MSSA.
7. Status post bilateral total knee replacement and left hip
replacement.
8. History of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis.
9. History of upper GI bleed and lower GI bleed.
ALLERGIES:
Nafcillin , he has a rash.
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
Included Epogen , heparin , mitogen with dialysis , Neutra-Phos ,
factor IX with dialysis , lactulose , Nephrocaps , Carnitor , insulin
sliding scale , ciprofloxacin 500 q. Sunday , Carafate , Protonix
b.i.d. , Amphojel , Compazine , and oxycodone p.r.n.
SOCIAL HISTORY:
He is married , has five children. He has HIV and HCV from
transfusion. He is not currently working.
FAMILY HISTORY:
Notable for factor IX deficiency hemophilia.
PHYSICAL EXAM ON ADMISSION:
The patient was afebrile , slight tachycardiac at 105 , and
normotensive at 120/72 , sating well on room air. General: He
was cachetic and chronically ill appearing , alert and oriented ,
and comfortable. Neck veins were flat. Cardiovascular exam was
notable for regular rate and rhythm. Normal S1 , S2 and a 3/6
holosystolic murmur at the apex. Chest was notable for mild
bibasilar crackles , otherwise clear. Abdomen was distended ,
notable for flank dullness. He did have normal active bowel
sounds and a peritoneal port on the right. Extremities were
notable for being wasted , warm with absent pulses. Right knee
was erythematous , edematous , and extremely tender to palpation.
LABS ON ADMISSION:
Notable for potassium of 5.2 , BUN of 42 , and creatinine of 4.2.
His liver function panel was within normal limits. His white
blood cell count was 10.4 , hematocrit 36.6 , and platelets
332 , 000. His PT was 15.4 , PTT 62.3 , and INR was 1.2. X-ray of
his right knee demonstrated an effusion and no fracture. A chest
x-ray demonstrated a small left pleural effusion and atelectasis.
His erythrocyte sedimentation rate was 70.
OPERATIONS AND PROCEDURES:
On 0/2/04 , he had an incision and drainage of his right knee by
Dr. Moelter of Orthopedics. On 7/30/04 , he had a
hemodialysis-tunneled catheter placed by Interventional
Radiology. On 2/16/04 , he had a PICC line placed at the
bedside , and he underwent hemodialysis.
HOSPITAL COURSE BY PROBLEM:
1. Musculoskeletal and Infectious Disease: He was admitted to
the Renal Service for treatment of septic arthritis of his right
knee , which was a prosthetic joint. Blood cultures were positive
for methicillin-sensitive Staphylococcus aureus , which was the
organism , which had caused his prior endocarditis. He underwent
incision and drainage of his right knee by Orthopedic Service ,
Dr. Majka , on 0/2/04 .  In addition , his hemodialysis catheter
was pulled on 2/22/04 because it too had grown blood cultures
positive for MSSA. He had no further positive cultures once his
dialysis catheter was pulled except for 1/4 bottles coag-negative
Staph from 1/16/04 , which was attributed to contamination. He
was treated with vancomycin and gentamicin just after dialysis.
He received a total of seven days of gentamicin and was on day
#14 of a six-week course of vancomycin upon discharge. He had
some low-grade temperature during admission but only one
temperature spiked to 101 degrees. Both Orthopedics and
Infectious Disease Services were consulted and followed him
throughout admission. Orthopedics and Infectious Disease
consultant determined that if any blood cultures became positive
after removal of the hemodialysis catheter , he would need to
return to the OR for joint exploitation. Given his negative
culture this did not occur and he is discharged with prosthetic
joint in place. The joint fluid culture as well synovial tissue
and synovial culture from his I&amp;D were positive for MSSA.
Surveillance cultures were negative for seven days following the
procedure. He was instructed to continue vancomycin for a total
of six-week course and to follow up with Infectious Disease in
two months. He was cleared for physical therapy and returned to
rehab by Orthopedics with instructions to remove his sutures
three weeks after discharge and to follow up with Orthopedic , Dr.
Glader , as indicated by his symptom.
2. Hematology: He has factor IX deficiency hemophilia for which
he normally takes q. week or twice weekly factor IX before
dialysis. During admission , he was initially loaded with factor
IX in the emergency department for arthrocentesis. Hematology
was consulted and they recommended b.i.d. factor IX 4000 units
during admission while the situation regarding surgery and line
placement was unclear. He continued receiving b.i.d. factor IX
until the day of discharge as his last line was placed on that
day. He was to return to factor IX before dialysis only upon
return to rehab and was to follow up with Dr. Tutson , his
primary hematologist. In addition , he received erythropoietin
with dialysis.
3. Renal: He has end-stage renal disease and is on hemodialysis
Mondays , Wednesdays , and Fridays. He continued this regimen
while he had his hemodialysis catheter in place , however , when
that was removed , he was dialyzed to a temporary femoral artery
catheter and only as clinically indicated. He was dialyzed most
recently on 7/30/04 after his dialysis catheter was replaced by
Interventional Radiology , and he should return to his Monday ,
Wednesday , Friday schedule. He was continued on his home renal
supplements. He was continued on erythropoietin with dialysis
and midodrine.
4. GI: He has HCV cirrhosis and chronic ascites and history of
spontaneous bacterial peritonitis as well as upper and lower GI
bleed. He had no evidence of bleeding during admission. The
occult blood was negative x3. He additionally had no evidence of
infection or SPP. He was taped by a peritoneal port thrice
weekly with removal of 3 to 4 liters of fluid each time. The
first set was sent for culture , which was negative.
Additionally , he was continued on his b.i.d. proton pump
inhibitor given his history of upper GI bleed.
5. Endocrine: He has diabetes for which he was covered with
Regular Insulin sliding scale upon admission. Given some
elevated blood sugars up to 300s and the risk of bacteremia , he
was started on NPH and was discharged on 10 q.a.m. and 5 q.p.m.
with continued Regular Insulin sliding scale for added coverage.
6. Prophylaxis: He was not anticoagulated despite his
immobility. Given his hemophilia , he was placed on TED hose and
pneumoboots and continued on his PPI.
7. FEN: Nutrition was consulted because of his low albumin and
general cachexia. He was placed on a 1.5 liters fluid
restriction and 2 g sodium restriction given his chronic ascites.
He is also on a diabetic diet and renal diet. Nutrition
recommended supplementing with Enlive and Ensure , and the patient
had adequate oral intake during admission. He was not given IV
fluids.
DISPOSITION:
He has full code. He was discharged in stable condition to rehab
with instructions to follow up with his new primary care doctor ,
Dr. Ezequiel Strawn , Orthopedics as needed by symptoms with his
regular hematologist , his regular renal physician , and with
Infectious Disease , and to continue antibiotics for a six-week
course.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION AT DISCHARGE:
It was unchanged from admission with a cardiac exam notable for
regular rate and rhythm and a 3/6 holosystolic murmur at the
apex. Bibasilar rales on pulmonary exam. Distended , nontender
abdomen. His right knee was notable for a clean suture line with
no warmth , erythema or swelling.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:
Tylenol 650 mg p.o. q.4h. p.r.n. , Amphojel 30 mL p.o. t.i.d.
one-half hour before meals , ciprofloxacin 500 mg p.o. q. week on
Sundays , to be changed to q. Monday , Wednesday , Friday when his
six-week course of vancomycin was finished on 11/10/04 , Flexeril
5 mg p.o. b.i.d. p.r.n. for muscle spasms , Benadryl 25 mg p.o.
q.h.s. p.r.n. , Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , NPH insulin 10 units
q.a.m. , 5 mg q.p.m. , Regular Insulin sliding scale. No coverage
blood sugar less than 25 for blood sugar 125 to 150 , 2 units , 151
to 200 , 3 units , 201 to 250 , 4 units , 251-300 , 6 units , 301-350 ,
8 units , 351-400 , 10 units , and notify a physician if blood sugar
is greater than 400 , lactulose 30 mL p.o. b.i.d. p.r.n. to
titrate two to three bowel movements per day , milk of magnesia 30
mL p.o. q.d. p.r.n. , Neutra-Phos two packets p.o. q.d. ,
simethicone 80 mg p.o. q.i.d. p.r.n. , Carafate 1 g p.o. q.d. ,
vancomycin 1 g IV after dialysis and to be redosed for levels
less than 20 , to complete a six-week course , which will be
finished on 11/10/04 , Compazine 10 mg p.o. q.6h. p.r.n. ,
Nephrocaps one tab p.o. q.d. , miconazole nitrate 2% powder
topical to the groin , Carnitor 0.5 g p.o. t.i.d. , midodrine 10 mg
p.o. one hour before dialysis , esomeprazole 40 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,
Maalox tablets chewable one to two tabs p.o. q.6h. p.r.n. , and
Epogen 4000 units q. Monday , Wednesday , Friday with dialysis.
The patient was discharged in stable condition to Nixry Health Care for continued rehabilitation. He was
instructed to follow up with the Infectious Disease Service in
two months , and he was call 250-556-9028 for an appointment with
Dr. Royal Tartsah at Mecrant Win Memorial Hospital for new
primary care physician on 2/30/04 at 9:20 a.m. , with Dr. Pujol
of Hematology in one month , and with Dr. Sturmer of Orthopedics as
needed by return of symptoms.
DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS FOR REHABILITATION:
1. Continue vancomycin 1 g IV after dialysis until 11/10/04 .  He
should be redosed for any vancomycin level less than 20.
2. He should increase his ciprofloxacin to 500 mg p.o. q.
Monday , Wednesday , Friday after 11/10/04 when his vancomycin is
finished.
3. He should receive dialysis on Monday , Wednesday , and Friday
as he was before admission.
4. He should have paracentesis on Tuesdays , Thursdays , and
Saturdays via port with an estimated removal of 3 to 4 liters as
dictated by the patient's symptoms.
5. He should have suture removal from his right knee three weeks
after his operation on 0/28/04 . 
6. He should have a dry sterile dressing change q.d. to his
right knee.
7. He should receive factor IX Mononine 50 units per kg before
each dialysis with a goal factor IX of greater than 50% activity.
8. He should have follow up with Infectious Disease , his PMD ,
Renal , Hematology , and Orthopedics as needed.
9. He should have Enlive b.i.d. and Ensure q.d. as nutritional
supplements.
10. His PICC line on 2/16/04 , it is good position and should be
discontinued after his vancomycin course.
DISPOSITION:
The patient is full code.
eScription document: 6-8943893 EMSSten Tel
CC: Derick Garland Loseke , MD
ERGLI HOSPITAL
Iviale
CC: Cortez Wipfli M.D.
Jeffro Buba Caen Hospital
Lakeel Houwayne Green
Dictated By: MAJOCKA , WERNER
Attending: MOHD , ERROL
Dictation ID 9619724
D: 2/16/04
T: 2/16/04
[report_end]
