RECORD #335277


994119684 | NMC | 73109639 | | 192725 | 0/11/1996 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 0/11/1996 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 4/30/1996
DIAGNOSIS: 1 ) LEFT THIGH CELLULITIS , LEFT THIGH ABSCESS , STATUS
POST I&amp;D.
2 ) ACUTE RENAL FAILURE.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Mrs. Bradham is a pleasant 52 year old
obese black female with history of
diabetes , chronic lower extremity venous stasis , history of
cellulitis who presented with left lower extremity pain , edema , and
erythema. The patient has had a long history of diabetes since
1984 for which she has been treated with diet and glyburide with
poorly controlled blood sugars until Metformin was added in
March of 1996. In the past five years the patient has also
become morbidly obese with a weight of greater than 200 pounds.
Since 1995 she has noted development of significant bilateral lower
extremity swelling. In March of 1996 she was treated for diabetic
stasis ulcers on both of her legs with cellulitis requiring home IV
antibiotics. Part of the bilateral lower extremity swelling was
attributed to the presence of a large uterine fibroid which was
thought to be compromising venous return. Her massive edema was
treated unsuccessfully with Lasix.
The patient was doing well until about a week prior to admission
when she developed some diarrhea consisting of two to three bowel
movements a day. Her stool was watery brown without any blood or
mucus. She also reported some nausea and vomiting as well as
chills. She believes that she had fevers , but these temperatures
were not measured. One day after the onset of her diarrhea the
patient noted the development of burning pain on her left anterior
thigh just above her knee. This was associated with increased
erythema and mildly increased swelling in that area. She reports
that her diarrhea , there had been stool running down her left thigh
the previous day. This area of erythema on her left leg
subsequently spread to the lateral surface of the thigh and was
associated with increasing pain. The pain was so severe that it
prevented the patient from her daily activities and from walking.
The patient presented to the Emergency Department on 2/29 for
worsening of her lower extremity pain and decreased p.o. intake.
On the day of admission the patient states that her diarrhea had
resolved and that she has had no abdominal pain. She has had no
chest pain or shortness of breath or any other localizing signs of
infection except her left leg. On admission she was found to have
a temperature of 100 degrees Fahrenheit and she was placed in the
Short Stay Unit. Subsequently her admission labs were noted to
reveal elevated LFTs and an elevated BUN and creatinine with a
white blood cell count of 35 , 000. Because of these abnormalities
and renal failure , the patient was transferred out of the Short
Stay Unit to the General Medicine team for further care.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Noninsulin dependent diabetes mellitus.
Bilateral lower extremity edema with chronic
venous stasis changes. HIstory of cellulitis. History of
hypertension. Uterine fibroid. Hypercholesterolemia.
Osteoarthritis. Hemoglobin C trace.
ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies.
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: Glyburide 5 mg b.i.d. Lisinopril 20 mg
b.i.d. Lasix 80 mg q a.m. Metformin
500 mg b.i.d. Naprosyn 375 mg b.i.d. p.r.n.
MEDICATIONS ON TRANSFER FROM SHORT STAY UNIT: Ancef 1 gram IV q 8.
Colace 100 mg b.i.d.
Insulin sliding scale. Lisinopril 20 mg b.i.d.
FAMILY HISTORY: Notable for a sister with diabetes mellitus.
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient denies alcohol , cigarettes , or drug
use. The patient lives in Sa Na Oak and cares
for four young grandchildren.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: The patient was an obese , pleasant , African
American woman in no apparent distress. Her
temperature was 99.4 , blood pressure 110/74 , pulse rate of 92 ,
respiratory rate 20 , O2 sat 96% on room air. Her HEENT exam was
nonicteric with moist oropharynx and no lesions. The neck was
supple without any lymphadenopathy. She had a right EJ IV line.
There were no carotid bruits. Her lungs were clear to auscultation
with no CVA tenderness. Her heart was regular rate and rhythm.
There was a faint S4 and a loud P2 component to the S2 sound. Her
abdominal exam was obese , non-positive for bowel sounds. There was
mild tenderness over the periumbilical region with some fullness/
suggestion of a mass. There was no rebound or guarding , no right
upper quadrant tenderness , no hepatomegaly/splenomegaly ( exam
limited by obesity ). Her extremity exam revealed marked bilateral
swelling in both lower extremities with chronic stasis changes.
There were multiple venous plaques on the pretibial areas of both
legs with one venous plaque being ulcerated on the right pretib
area. Examination of her left thigh revealed a patch of erythema
and warmth that was very tender to the touch. Neurologic exam was
alert and oriented times three , intact cranial nerves III-XII.
There was slight decrease in sensation in the patient's lower
extremity , left greater than right to pin sensation. Her motor
exam was otherwise unremarkable. Her rectal exam was reported to
be guaiac negative per the Emergency Department.
LABORATORIES ON ADMISSION: Sodium 133 , potassium 5.2 , BUN 43 , and
creatinine of 3.7. The patient's last
creatinine value on record was in July of 1996 which was 0.6. Her
LFTs revealed an ALT of 71 , AST of 57 , LDH 717 , alkaline
phosphatase 196 , total bilirubin 1.1 , direct bilirubin 0.6. Her
amylase was 8. Her albumin was 2.1 and her calcium was 8.2. Her
CBC on admission revealed a white cell count of 34 , 000 , hematocrit
of 29 , and platelets of 624 , 000. The differential on the white
blood cell count was 78 polys , 38 bands , 6 lymphs , 3 monocytes , and
no eos. Her MCV on her hematocrit was 77. Her PT and PTT were
both within normal limits. Her urinalysis revealed 3+ protein , 1+
leukocyte esterase , 8-12 white blood cells , 20-25 red blood cells ,
and 2+ squamous epithelial cells.
Chest x-ray on admission revealed low lung volumes with possible
left total effusion that was blurring left lower lobe air space
disease. Abdominal ultrasound performed on admission revealed no
hydronephrosis , a normal liver biliary system. Study was limited
secondary to body habitus. Lower extremity non-invasive studies
revealed no evidence of deep venous thrombosis. However , exam was
limited secondary to habitus.
HOSPITAL COURSE: By issues:
1. Left thigh cellulitis: The patient was started on Ancef
renally dosed for her left thigh cellulitis. Her legs were kept
raised and her white blood cell and fever curves followed. An
Infectious Disease consult as well as a Dermatology consult was
obtained to assist with antibiotics as well as dressing for her
lower extremity changes. Blood cultures and wound cultures sent
did not reveal any organisms. Because of the patient's very high
white blood cell count , the ID consult team was concerned for the
possibility of toxic shock syndrome; therefore , Clindamycin IV was
also added to her regimen of antibiotics. Also per ID
recommendation , stool cultures were sent for E. coli 0167: H7 which
was negative. Although there was an initial fall in the patient's
white count during the first several days of antibiotics , this
white count subsequently began rising again. This was associated
with continued poor resolution of the pain in the patient's left
thigh and perhaps worsening erythema. Because the patient's left
leg did not appear to be getting better on antibiotics , a Surgical
consult was obtained to rule out a deeper seated infection in the
patient's thigh. Imaging of the patient's leg with MRI was
attempted but was unsuccessful secondary to the patient's large
size. A CT of both of her legs were obtained instead which
revealed no evidence of an abscess in her left leg , however , it did
incidentally detect a large effusion in the patient's left knee.
One week after admission the patient noted acute worsening of the
pain in her left knee. Because of the known left knee effusion , a
concern for a septic knee joint was raised. A Rheumatology consult
was obtained. The left knee was tapped using ultrasound guidance
removing 20 cc of turbid knee fluid. Studies on the left knee
effusion revealed 13 , 000 white blood cells with negative gram stain
and negative crystal exam times 3. Cultures of the left knee fluid
did not grow any organisms. Despite these findings , we were still
concerned that this was a partially treated septic joint given the
patient had been on antibiotics for one week. For this reason an
Orthopedic consult was obtained and the patient was taken to the OR
for possible debridement. On 6/15 the patient was taken to the
Operating Room where an abscess on the left lateral distal thigh
was found and drained. A total of approximately 20 cc of pus was
removed by Dr. Sudler . There was no connection between the pus
collection and the left knee effusion. After the drainage , the
patient's clinical status improved dramatically with a decrease in
her white count and increased mobility of her leg. She was
continued on Ancef IV and p.o. Ofloxacillin which had been added
for gram negative coverage. The Clindamycin was subsequently
discontinued. On the day prior to discharge the patient's white
blood cell count had fallen to 10 , 000. She remained afebrile.
2. Renal: On admission the patient was noted to have a creatinine
of 3.7 with a baseline known to be 0.6 in July of 1996. However , on
searching through the patient's records it appears that the patient
had been noted to have increased proteinuria since July of 1996.
The acute renal failure was initially thought to be secondary to
dehydration; the patient was given IV hydration with no improvement
in her creatinine. For that reason , a Renal consult was obtained
on the third day of admission. It was the impression of the Renal
Service that the patient's acute renal failure was likely
multifactorial secondary to a combination of diabetic nephropathy ,
low albumin , volume loss secondary to diarrhea , infection , and
medications which included NSAIDs as well as ACE inhibitor. For
that reason , the patient's nephrotoxic medications , which include
Lisinopril and Metformin , were discontinued. The patient's
electrolytes and volume status was followed closely for the rest of
the course of the hospitalization with continued gradual
improvement. Her creatinine peaked at 4.7. On discharge the
patient's creatinine had resolved back to 2.2.
3. Right upper extremity swelling: On the day after the patient
returned from the Operating Room for the drainage of her left
thigh , she was found to have new onset of swelling in her right arm
and breast. Initially we were concerned for the presence of a
right upper extremity deep venous thrombosis. Upper extremity
non-invasive studies were obtained which were negative for any
clots. An echocardiogram was also obtained showing no evidence of
right heart dysfunction. A nuclear flow study was also attempted
but was unsuccessful because of the failure to obtain venous access
on the patient's right arm. The Leahgulf Mary Katon Hospital team was also
consulted regarding the use of heparin. However , given that the
patient had poor access and had an anemia , it was decided that the
patient would not be heparinized. Her right upper extremity
swelling was observed closely and with elevation of the right arm
over the next few days gradually resolved without any
complications. On the day prior to discharge a repeat right upper
extremity ultrasound was obtained which revealed no evidence of
blood clots in her right arm.
4. Hematology: On admission the patient was found to have a low
hematocrit with a low MVC. Iron studies were performed which
revealed the likely presence of iron deficiency. For that reason
the patient was placed on iron sulfate 30 mg t.i.d. The patient
was guaiac negative , thus ruling out evidence of a chronic GI
bleed. The patient's anemia is also likely a reflection of her
renal dysfunction.
5. GI: Although the patient had experienced some diarrhea prior
to admission , her diarrhea resolved in the hospital. All of her
stool studies were negative. Abdominal ultrasound revealed no
abnormalities in the patient's liver or biliary system to account
for the mild transaminitis found on admission. It is likely that
the patient had a bout of viral gastroenteritis a few days prior to
admission which resolved spontaneously.
DISPOSITION: To Hi Health . 
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Ancef 1 gram IV q.8h. times 14 days.
Ofloxacin 200 mg p.o. b.i.d. times 14 days.
Lotrimin topical applied b.i.d. to toes and webs of toes. Nystatin
powder topical b.i.d. applied to groin area. Polysporin ointment
topical applied to right pretibial ulcer with dressing. Iron
sulfate 300 mg p.o. t.i.d. Atenolol 50 mg q day. Oxycodone 5-10
mg p.o. q.4h. p.r.n. pain. Miracle Cream p.r.n. Colace 100 mg
p.o. b.i.d.
ADDITIONAL INSTRUCTIONS: The patient will require , at Mai Memorial Hospital ,
dressing changes on her left leg p.r.n.
saturation ( probably at least q shift ) with 4 x 8 Kerlix/ABD
pads/Kerlix wrap with fine dry bulky soft dressing.
The patient is discharged with IV Ancef for an additional 14 days
as well as p.o. Ofloxacin for 14 days. The patient will require
follow-up with a doctor while at Hightalon Geer Of Health to determine changes in
the antibiotics regimen. As for the patient's right pretibial
ulcer , that will require daily wet to dry dressing with the
application of Polysporin.
CONDITION ON DISCHARGE: Stable.
FOLLOW-UP: The patient is to be followed up by her primary MMC
doctor to be arranged.
Dictated By: GENARO F. MAGSAYO , M.D. ZQ0
Attending: GIOVANNI T. HRANCHAK , M.D. XP88  HM620/8939
Batch: 4312 Index No. PYGKT18MTP D: 6/30/96
T: 6/30/96
CC: 1. JUDE N. RUHMANN , M.D.
2. DR. THIESFELD
[report_end]
