RECORD #339732
785289682 | HCHO | 34916218 | | 379854 | 4/3/1999 12:00:00 AM | HEART FAILURE | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 3/1/1999 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 10/20/1999
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS: ATRIAL FIBRILLATION STATUS POST
CARDIOVERSION.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is an 38-year-old African
American gentleman with a familial
dilated cardiomyopathy with an ejection fraction of approximately
20 percent , history of ventricular tachycardia status post AICD
placement , and recurrent atrial fibrillation status post two prior
attempts at cardioversion. The patient had also previously been
begun on amiodarone for chemical cardioversion , however , he
developed severe hyperthyroidism. The patient also has had several
recent admissions for exacerbations of his congestive heart
failure , most recently in February , 1998 when he was admitted for
tailored therapy. At that time , an echocardiogram demonstrated an
ejection fraction of , approximately , 20 percent with atrial
dimension of 5 centimeters , left ventricular diastolic dimension of
7.7 centimeters , moderate-severe mitral regurgitation , and moderate
tricuspid regurgitation with pulmonary artery pressure of
approximately 40 , plus right atrial pressure. The patient was , at
that time , diuresed to his dry weight , which is approximately 186
pounds. Unfortunately , he was again admitted in February of 1998
with volume overload and was diuresed. At that time , he was noted
to be in atrial fibrillation , and was cardioverted on his
previously implanted AICD.
His most recent admission was on March to January , when
he again was cardioverted by his AICD for atrial fibrillation and
treated for volume overload. In March of 1999 , he had increasing
firing of his AICD both for true ventricular tachycardia , as well
as for atrial fibrillation , and anti-tachycardia pacing. He was
seen in cardiomyopathy clinic on August , and was found to be in
atrial fibrillation and volume overloaded. His diuretics were
increased at that time , as his weight was 207 pounds , and he
diuresed down to a weight of 199 pounds. It was felt that
amiodarone would be the best drug for him in terms of management of
his ventricular and atrial arrhythmias , and so the patient
underwent an elective thyroid ablation with radioactive iodine. He
received 30 mCi of I-131. He now presents today after the thyroid
ablation for amiodarone load and cardioversion. The patient is
feeling relatively well , and is not experiencing any significant
dyspnea on exertion or paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea. He reports no
increased lower extremity edema. No neck pain. No fever or
chills. No nausea or vomiting.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: ( 1 ) Notable for dilated cardiomyopathy
diagnosed in 1992. His most recent V.02 is
19.5 in February of 1995. ( 2 ) AICD placement for ventricular
tachycardia in March of 1998. ( 3 ) Hyperthyroidism secondary to
amiodarone. ( 4 ) History of atrial fibrillation , status post
multiple cardioversions in the past ( see above ). ( 5 ) History of a
left renal infarct. ( 6 ) History of pancreatis.
ALLERGIES: He is allergic to penicillin.
MEDICATIONS: ( 1 ) Captopril 75 milligrams q.i.d. ( 2 ) Digoxin 0.125
milligrams q.d. ( 3 ) Isordil 40 milligrams t.i.d.
( 4 ) Torsemide 200 milligrams b.i.d. ( 5 ) Coumadin 5 milligrams q.d.
( 6 ) Prilosec 20 milligrams b.i.d. ( 7 ) Zaroxolyn p.r.n.
SOCIAL HISTORY: Notable for no tobacco or alcohol use. No history
of intravenous drug use.
FAMILY HISTORY: Notable for a father who died of a myocardial
infarction at age 56 , a brother with
cardiomyopathy who died in the 50s , and another brother with
dilated cardiomyopathy.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: The physical examination was notable
for a jugular venous pressure of 10
centimeters. VITAL SIGNS: The patient was afebrile. Pulse was
100 to 120. Blood pressure was 90/75. LUNGS: Clear to
auscultation. CARDIOVASCULAR: Heart rate which is regular ,
irregular with S1 and S2 normal , and intermittent S3 , and a II/VI
holosystolic murmur best auscultated at the apex radiating to this
axilla. ABDOMEN: His belly was soft , nontender , nondistended with
active bowel sounds and a palpable liver , approximately , 1.5
centimeters below the costal margin , which was pulsatile.
EXTREMITIES: His extremities were warm and well perfused. Distal
Pulses were 2+. There was no edema.
LABORATORY DATA ON ADMISSION: BUN of 58. Creatinine of 2.5.
Potassium of 3.8. INR of 5.1.
Hematocrit of 42.8. White count of 8.5.
DIAGNOSTIC STUDIES: His electrocardiogram was notable for atrial
fibrillation of , approximately , 120 with a
zero degree axis and an intraventricular conduction delay; R-wave
progression was poor. He had ST-T wave changes consistent with
digitalis effect. There was no change in this cardiogram compared
to the one in February of 1998.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted to the Cardiology
Service , and an amiodarone load was initiated at
400 milligrams four times a day. Endocrinologist Service was
consulted and followed along status post his ablation. The patient
was felt to be euvolemic and slightly hypovolemic upon his
admission , and his diuretics were reduced to 100 twice a day of
Torsemide. After approximately 36 hours with a slight
liberalization of his fluid intake , the patient normalized , and he
became slight hypervolemic. At that time , his diuretic regimen was
returned to his normal outpatient dose of 200 twice a day , and he
received an extra dose of intravenous Torsemide. On the third of
hospitalization , January , 1999 , the patient was cardioverted by
his ICD with 30 joules of synchronous shock , which turned the
patient to sinus rhythm. At this point , he had received three days
of amiodarone at 400 milligrams four times a day. During this
amiodarone load , the patient became markedly nauseated with
episodes of vomiting. It was also noted that he developed some
decreased blood pressure while on the amiodarone attributed to the
negative inotropic effects of the drug. His normal medications
were intermittently held for hypertension , and the patient , at
times , appeared to be quite unwell during his amiodarone load ,
feeling nauseated and relatively hypertensive. However , after the
patient's medicines were given , he returned to a normal blood
pressure and felt well.
The patient was successfully cardioverted to normal sinus rhythm on
January . He will be discharged on amiodarone dose for
maintenance now that his load has been completed. His thyroid
function tests were checked in house subsequent to his ablation ,
and they were notable for a T4 level of 9.6. He is to have his
thyroid function tests rechecked in , approximately , three weeks and
he will be followed in the endocrine clinic as well at that time.
He also is to initiate therapy with Tapazole 10 milligrams a day to
protect the patient from developing hyperthyroidism in the setting
of his amiodarone. The patient's dose of Coumadin was also held in
house as his INR was elevated. It had fallen to a level of 3.0 on
the day of discharge , and he was discharged on a lower dose of
Coumadin to be adjusted as an outpatient by the anticoagulation
team.
The patient's renal function returned to baseline , approximately ,
24 hours after admission when he returned to a euvolemic state.
His slightly elevated creatinine was attributed to pre-renal
dehydration. His creatinine on the day of discharge was 1.6 , and
his baseline is , approximately , 1.6 to 2.0. His baseline
insufficiency can be attributed to poor forward flow.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: ( 1 ) Captopril 75 milligrams q.i.d.
( 2 ) Digoxin 0.125 milligrams q.d.
( 3 ) Isordil 40 milligrams t.i.d. ( 4 ) Amiodarone 200 milligrams
b.i.d. ( 5 ) Torsemide 200 milligrams b.i.d. ( 6 ) Prilosec 20
milligrams bid ( 7 ) Tapazole 10 milligrams q.d. to begin on Monday.
( 8 ) K-Dur as per his outpatient medicines. ( 9 ) Coumadin
3 milligrams q.d. to be adjusted as an outpatient.
FOLLOW UP: The patient will return to the Mowe Memorial Hospital
Hospital early next week to have his electrolytes and
INR checked. He will return in , approximately , three weeks to
have thyroid function tests checked , as previously stated. He has
follow up appointments in both cardiomyopathy clinic and endocrine
clinic , and close follow up with the cardiomyopathy and transplant
team.
Dictated By: ROLAND JONAH , M.D. DA97
Attending: GROVER L. SPERO , M.D. XP1
NN826/3312
Batch: 25934 Index No. BDPQUY79M4 D: 6/19/99
T: 6/19/99
[report_end]
