RECORD #345415
902618244 | CCGH | 24164340 | | 3321291 | 8/25/2004 12:00:00 AM | CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 8/5/2004 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 11/4/2004
ATTENDING: DONNIE NEISEN MD
ADMITTING DIAGNOSIS:
Coronary artery disease.
PRINCIPAL DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:
Coronary artery disease.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:
This is an 83-year-old male with a history of coronary artery
disease , hypertension , diabetes mellitus , and hyperlipidemia. He
recently presented to Clinch University Medical Center on 8/30/04 with loss of
consciousness while driving a motor vehicle. He sustained a
left-sided rib fracture. He denies chest pain , shortness of
breath that time. CT scan of the head performed and was
negative. His EKG was consistent with a right bundle-branch
block , but no acute changes. His Persantine testing was
performed and they suspect reversible anterior wall apical
ischemia. He underwent a cardiac catheterization today , which
showed triple vessel disease. He developed complaints of chest
pain post-catheterization with ST depressions , which resolved
with nitroglycerin and Lopressor. He was started on heparin and
nitroglycerin drip and admitted by the cardiology service. CABG
was scheduled by Dr. Vannorden Trauma Service was consulted to
clear him for surgery. Urology also was consulted due to recent
onset of hematuria and extensive neurological history.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
Significant for hypertension , diabetes mellitus ,
hypercholesterolemia , triple AAA , coronary artery disease , left
rib fractures , bladder carcinoma , and adrenal adenoma on CT scan
of the abdomen from an outside hospital.
HOSPITAL COURSE:
He was admitted , he was made ready for surgery , and was taken to
the operating room on 7/30/04 , at which time he underwent an off
pump coronary artery bypass graft x2 with LIMA to the LAD ,
saphenous vein graft to the RCA. His intraoperative findings
showed that he would need a stent to his OM2 at a later date. He
also will need an EP study prior to discharge. He also would
need aspirin and Plavix. He is transferred to the Intensive Care
Unit in a stable fashion. He was extubated. He was ready for
transfer to Step-Down Unit by postoperative day #1.
Neurologically , he was intact. Cardiovascular: He was getting
Lopressor 5 mg IV q.4h. His heart rate was 80 to 90. His
systolic blood pressure was 90 to 100. Respiratory: He was
extubated within five hours postoperative. He was on 4 liters
with sats in the high 90s. GI: He was n.p.o. pending his speech
and swallowing evaluation due to his age. Renal: He was
diuresing well. Urology was following. He required bladder
flushes and his urine became cloudy and the Foley was to remain
in. He was on aspirin and Plavix was to be started. On
postoperative day #2 , his chest tubes were removed. His
epicardial pacing wires were left in and EP was evaluating him
for an AICD secondary to his preoperative syncopal episodes.
Cardiology was following for his need for his stent , which they
recommended him having done as an outpatient in one month after
discharge. The Foley was still in secondary to his hematuria.
On postoperative day #3 , his wires were removed. He went into
atrial fibrillation a short time later. He was titrating up on
his Lopressor. He spoke with the Urology , and he was cleared to
have a __________ follow up with Dr. Horwath in one to two weeks.
On postoperative day #4 , he had an echo done , which revealed an
EF of 55% with trace MR and trace TR , inferior basal hypokinesis.
On postoperative day #5 , his creatinine was up to 1.6. He was
off Motrin and Lasix. He was decreased to his loading 20 without
difficulty and was sating 91% on room air with ambulation and
started on his preoperative captopril for hypertension to 160
systolically. The patient did well and he was found suitable to
discharge to rehabilitation on 7/27/04.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:
Included Tylenol 650 mg p.o. q.6h. , baby aspirin 81 mg p.o. q.d. ,
captopril 12.5 mg p.o. t.i.d. , Lasix 20 mg p.o. q.d. for five
days , glipizide 10 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Niferex 150 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,
oxycodone 5 mg to 10 mg p.o. q.4h. as needed for pain , Proscar 5
mg p.o. q.d. , simvastatin 40 mg p.o. q.h.s. , Toprol-XL 200 mg
p.o. q.d. , potassium slow release 10 mEq p.o. q.d. for five days ,
Humalog sliding scale , Flomax 0.4 mg p.o. q.d. , Plavix 75 mg p.o.
q.d. , Nexium 20 mg p.o. q.d. , Lantus 10 units subcutaneous q.h.s.
DIET:
Carbohydrate controlled diet , low-cholesterol , low saturated fat ,
ADA 1800 calories a day.
DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS:
Include make follow up appointments with Dr. Hodgens in four to
six weeks , Dr. Bowell from Cardiology in one to two weeks , and
Dr. Thrams his primary care physician in two to four weeks and
Dr. Calvo from Urology in one to two weeks. Other instructions
included that the patient would need a permanent pacemaker
placed , as well as a coronary artery stent to his OM. Cardiology
plans to do stenting one month after surgery. EPS will place
pacemaker at that time.
DISCHARGE CONDITION:
Stable.
DISCHARGE DISPOSITION:
Rehabilitation.
OTHER INSTRUCTIONS:
Include the stent placement by cardiology with AICD permanent
pacemaker placement. Monitor creatinine and urine output and to
follow up with urology , local wound care , continue ambulation ,
shower patient daily , keep legs elevated while seated in a chair
and bed , monitor CV status and continue to monitor blood glucose
levels with a glucometer.
DISCHARGE LABORATORY DATA:
The patient's discharge laboratory values included sodium 134 ,
potassium 4.5 , chloride 98 , CO2 28 , BUN 44 , creatinine 1.5 , and
glucose 127. White blood cell count 8.3 , hematocrit 26.7 ,
platelets were 237 , and INR was 1.1. His discharge PA and
lateral revealed persistent elevation of the left lung base.
eScription document: 4-8371460 EMSSten Tel
Dictated By: FRAIRE , EMANUEL
Attending: MERIDETH , TYRON
Dictation ID 6938900
D: 5/24/04
T: 5/24/04
[report_end]
