RECORD #345699


366374799 | LH | 85547589 | | 8245454 | 8/13/2005 12:00:00 AM | SHORTNESS OF BREATH , CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 3/30/2005 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 0/2/2005
ATTENDING: ROMAN DAMIAN GIRGIS MD
ADMITTING DIAGNOSIS: CHF exacerbation.
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS: CHF exacerbation.
DISCHARGE CONDITION: Stable.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 56-year-old
gentleman with a history of nonischemic cardiomyopathy with a
baseline ejection fraction recently estimated at 10-15% in
July of this year. History of polysubstance abuse including
IV drug abuse , internasal cocaine , history of hepatitis C ,
history of depression , celiac sprue , history of insulin-dependent
diabetes mellitus , chronic renal insufficiency with a baseline
creatinine ranging from 1.8-2.4 , history of bipolar disorder ,
history of non-ST elevation MI with a negative stress test in
4/20 , who presents on March , 2005 after sustaining a fall
at home. Patient lives on the third floor of his building and
has difficulty secondary to dyspnea on exertion with ambulation
up steps. Per patient , patient was walking up steps and felt
increasing dyspneic and secondary experience a fall. EMS was
notified and patient was brought to the Hey County Hospital .  Upon presentation to the Sman Hospital , patient reports
other additional symptoms of CHF exacerbation including
progressive dyspnea on exertion , orthopnea , paroxysmal nocturnal
dyspnea and cough productive of yellow phlegm dating back to most
recent discharge from hospital on January , 2004 when patient
was admitted for similar complaint of CHF exacerbation. Patient
with multiple , multiple admissions in the last year to two years
secondary to CHF exacerbation with exacerbations felt to be
secondary to medication noncompliance as well as dietary
discretion.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: As stated.
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: Include Lasix 100 mg t.i.d. , Regular
Insulin sliding scale , lisinopril 7.5 mg p.o. q.d. , Ativan 0.5 mg
q.h.s. p.r.n. insomnia , spironolactone
25 mg p.o. q.d. , amlodipine 10 mg p.o. q.d. , Plavix 75 mg p.o.
q.d. , Lantus 15 units SC q.h.s. , Protonix 400 mg p.o. q.d.
ALLERGIES: Patient with allergies to multiple medications
including aspirin , codeine , tetracycline , NSAIDs , ibuprofen ,
Benadryl , Compazine , penicillin. Additionally of note , patient
should not receive beta-blockage given history of cocaine abuse
and ongoing cocaine use.
SOCIAL HISTORY: Patient lives on the third floor of his
apartment building. Former tobacco user. Patient refused to
discuss polysubstance abuse at the time of admission.
FAMILY HISTORY: Noncontributory.
VITAL SIGNS ON ADMISSION: Patient was afebrile at 96 , pulse of
84 , blood pressure 150/99 , respiratory rate of 20 , O2 sat 100% on
room air. Patient was quite combative on admission , though it is
unclear exactly the etiology of the patient's agitation.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION: Remarkable for elevated
jugular venous pressure with pulsation observant the ear at 90
degrees , estimated approximately 18 cm of water. Patient
addition with rales approximately one-half to two-thirds up
bilaterally on chest exam. Cardiac exam: Patient regular rate
and rhythm , no murmurs , rubs or gallops were appropriated.
Patient's lower extremities were felt to be warm and
well-perfused with 2+ lower extremity edema to the hips
bilaterally.
LABORATORY VALUES ON ADMISSION: Remarkable for sodium of 127 ,
hyponatremia felt to be secondary to chronic CHF exacerbation.
Potassium of 5.1 , bicarb of 19 , creatinine elevated at 2.6 up
from baseline of 1.8 , glucose elevated at 377 , hematocrit stable
at 34.5 and BNP was recorded on admission at greater than assay.
EKG on admission revealed normal sinus rhythm with a heart rate
of approximately
80 with T-wave inversion in V5-V6 which were similar to prior
echocardiograms. Chest x-ray obtained on admission revealed
pulmonary vascular congestion with flank pulmonary edema and
bilateral pleural effusions. No infiltrate was appreciated. As
such , patient was admitted for evaluation and management of CHF
exacerbation. CHF was felt to be secondary to medication and
dietary noncompliance as previously mentioned.
HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEM:
1. Cardiovascular:
A. Ischemia: Patient with no evidence for chest pain or
ischemic injury. At the time of admission , CHF exacerbation not
felt to be due to recurrent ischemia but rather medication
indiscretion. Of note , patient with multiple prior troponin
leaks ranging from 0.10 to 0.12 on prior admissions. Not felt to
be secondary to ischemia necessarily but rather due secondary to
elevated filling pressures.
B. Pump: Patient with decompensated heart failure on admission
not felt to be in a low cardiac output state but rather just
volume overloaded. Patient was subsequently diuresed using both
IV Lasix and p.o. torsemide. At the time of discharge , patient
felt to be relatively euvolemic though will likely require
further outpatient evaluation and ongoing diuresis given his
continued congestive heart failure. Patient with difficulty
adhering to a 2 liter per day fluid-restriction diet , would
recommend further nutritional outpatient evaluation and
counseling regarding his fluid status given poor cardiac
function. At the time of discharge , patient on 100 mg of
torsemide b.i.d. with relatively good urine output and I/O of
approximately negative 0.5 to 1 kg per day , would recommend
intensive outpatient CHF management including multidisciplinary
approach using heart failure nursing. Patient advised to use
scale and record daily weight , that there have been issues in the
past with compliance. Additionally , patient's Aldactone was
discontinued secondary to hyperkalemia and instead patient was
started on Isordil/hydralazine for hemodynamic support.
C. Rhythm: Patient stable from the perspective , maintained on
tele monitoring with no events over his hospital course.
2. Renal: Patient with acute renal failure on admission with
creatinine elevated to 2.6. With ongoing diuresis and correction
of volume overload , patient's creatinine corrected to a baseline
value. At the time of discharge , patient's creatinine was 2.0.
Recommend rehab monitoring of renal function including creatinine
and BUN every three days until patient on a stable dose of
torsemide and felt to be euvolemic , given concern or risk for
acute renal failure during ongoing diuresis.
3. Endocrine: Patient with a history of insulin-dependent
diabetes maintained on Lantus with Regular Insulin sliding scale
per outpatient regimen.
4. Psych: Patient with a history of bipolar disorder ,
maintained on Depakote. Additionally , patient with a history of
insomnia managed with Ativan 0.5 mg p.o. q.h.s. p.r.n.
Patient with a history of bipolar disorder treated with Depakote
per outpatient regimen.
MEDICATIONS AT TIME OF DISCHARGE: Include hydralazine 10 mg p.o.
q.i.d. with a hold parameter for systolic blood pressure less
than 100 mmHg. Regular Insulin sliding scale , Isordil 10 mg p.o.
t.i.d. , multivitamin , Norvasc 10 mg p.o. q.d. , torsemide 100 mg
p.o. b.i.d. , Plavix 75 mg p.o. q.d. given aspirin allergy ,
Depakote ER 250 mg p.o. q.h.s. , Nexium 40 mg p.o. q.d. with
appropriate substitution for formulary PPI , Lantus
20 units SC q.h.s. P.r.n. medications to include Tylenol , Ativan
0.5 mg p.o. q.h.s. p.r.n. insomnia , Atrovent neb 0.5 mg neb
t.i.d. p.r.n. shortness of breath , Ultram 50 mg p.o. q.8h. p.r.n.
pain.
ONGOING MEDICAL ISSUES AND OUTPATIENT ISSUES:
1. Patient will require further aggressive outpatient CHF
management including ongoing diuresis using p.o. torsemide.
Patient does put out well to p.o. torsemide , though of note he
does have compliance issues with regards to daily fluid intake.
2. Additionally , would recommend further titration of
hydralazine and Isordil to maximize hemodynamic support.
3. Additionally , given hyperkalemia on admission with peak
potassium reaching 6.0 , patient's lisinopril and spironolactone
held at the time of discharge. Would recommend reinstitution of
patient's ACE inhibitor particularly as an outpatient with
low-dose lisinopril perhaps starting at 2.5 mg p.o. q.d. with
intensive monitoring of potassium.
4. Additionally , would recommend further diabetic teaching as an
outpatient given patient's poor compliance.
5. Strongly feel patient would benefit from involvement in a CHF
program either through Gon Ce or
through other program.
FOLLOW-UP APPOINTMENT: Patient to follow up with primary care
physician , Dr. Marion Salser , at the Pressou Healthcare Center .  Please call for follow-up appointment.
eScription document: 6-3780740 LMSSten Tel
Dictated By: ROCHE , ALEXANDER
Attending: ARY , COLTON LOUIE
Dictation ID 4685534
D: 5/16/05
T: 5/16/05
[report_end]
