RECORD #349681


662587058 | SH | 59624946 | | 228883 | 10/2/1991 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Unsigned | DIS | Admission Date: 0/15/1991 Report Status: Unsigned

Discharge Date: 8/19/1991
PRINCIPLE DIAGNOSIS: ACUTE BRONCHITIS.
SECONDARY DIAGNOSES: STATUS POST AORTIC VALVE REPLACEMENT.
DEPRESSION.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 60-year-old white
male who was admitted with complaints
of cough , mild shortness of breath and persistent fevers. In 1981 ,
the patient was admitted to Nalher Hospital with
syncope secondary to aortic stenosis. A porcine AVR was performed
at that time. He had an unremarkable course until 2/20/90 , when
echocardiogram performed at TH showed an AV gradient of 64 mm of
mercury , mild to moderate MR , LVH , and normal function. A blowing
diastolic murmur was noted on physical exam at that time. On
0/4/91 , the patient underwent an ETT that was nondiagnostic due to
baseline EKG abnormalities. However , he had no substernal chest
pain after 12 minutes and 20 seconds. Around the end of March
1991 , the patient noted increasing fatigue , increased temperature ,
and some upper respiratory symptoms including cough and sore
throat. He claims that his sore throat lasted for nearly a month
then went away for one week only to return again for nearly one
month. He had been treated with amoxicillin without improvement.
One week prior to admission , he had persistent symptoms with a
cough with poor sputum production but the sputum that was produced
was yellow-green in color. He was treated with erythromycin in a
single dose before hospitalization. Also , one week prior to
admission , he noted some left chest pain without radiation that is
typical of his chest pain syndrome which had been previously
diagnosed. On the day of admission , the patient noted increased
persistent elevation in his temperature and a chest x-ray showed
questionable left lingular infiltrate that led to his admission.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Noteable for history of adult onset
diabetes , previously treated with insulin but now diet controlled.
Status post porcine AVR secondary to rheumatic heart disease.
Atypical chest pain syndrome. Depression. MEDICATIONS: On
admission included erythromycin , Motrin and imipramine. ALLERGIES:
NO KNOWN DRUG ALLERGIES. SOCIAL HISTORY: Remarkable for
significant past smoking history , past alcohol use , job as a
painter's rigger.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: On admission revealed an obese white male
whose appearance was appropriate for his age
in moderate distress. Blood pressure was 160/90. Heart rate 80.
Temperature 101.1. Respiratory rate of 14. Skin revealed
blanching macular rash confined largely to the trunk without
splinter hemorrhages , Janeway's nodes or Osler's nodes. Cardiac
exam revealed normal sinus rhythm , III/VI holosystolic murmur at
the left sternal border , II/VI diastolic murmur at the left sternal
border and a II/VI crescendo/decrescendo murmur at the apex with
extension to the axilla. Lungs revealed scattered rhonchi and few
rales especially in the left lung field. Extremities were without
cyanosis , clubbing or edema.
LABORATORY DATA: On admission included a glucose of 172. White
blood cell count 7.7. Hematocrit 41.2. Platelet
count 403 , 000. Previous work-up at SMCO showed an ESR of 24.
Urinalysis had 1+ protein , 1+ glucose , 1-3 white cells , 1-3 red
cells , trace bacteria and 2-5 hyaline casts. EKG revealed normal
sinus rhythm at 96 , intervals of 0.20/0.08/0.40 with axis of -30
degrees. There was LVH with strain. Chest x-ray showed a
questionable lingular infiltrate that was read as such by one
radiologist but this was not confirmed by a second radiologist.
There was no sign of congestive heart failure on chest x-ray.
HOSPITAL COURSE: When the patient was admitted , he was initially
treated as if his presenting symptoms were due to
a left lingular pneumonia despite his lack of elevated white count.
However , it was felt that endocarditis a small though real
possibility in this gentleman with AVR. Therefore , he was
originally treated with ampicillin , 2 grams IV q six hours;
gentamicin , 100 mg IV q eight hours; and erythromycin , 1 gram IV q
six hours to cover atypical bacteria including Legionella. Prior
to administering antibiotics , three blood cultures were obtained at
MLHH in addition to the two previously obtained at HH .  Sputum
sample was also sent for gram stain and C&amp;S. All blood cultures
remained negative throughout the hospitalization. Sputum culture
showed only normal flora. When the second radiologist read the
chest x-ray as being inconsistent with lingular pneumonia , a more
aggressive search for possible endocarditis was undertaken. An
echocardiogram was performed on 7/6 that showed an aortic valve
with 40 mm gradient , 2-3+ AI , 1+ MR , mild LVF and no regional wall
motion abnormalities. There was no evidence of vegetation on the
echo. Side by side comparison of this echocardiogram with the
echocardiogram from 4/27 done at LEH showed no significant
interval change. An Infectious Disease consult was sought and it
was felt by these consultants that endocarditis was an unlikely
diagnosis given the lack of change in echocardiogram and lack of
additional signs of SBE. It was ultimately felt that the patient's
shortness of breath and elevated temperature were due to bronchitis
and he was switched to po Bactrim to continue a ten day course of
therapy. Although the initial goal of his hospitalization was to
keep him hospitalized until cardiac catheterization and valve
replacement could be performed , the patient's personal situation
made it unfeasible to keep him in the hospital for a longer period
of time than absolutely necessary. Furthermore , there were
questions about whether cardiac catheterization and AVR should be
performed in someone being treated for presumed acute bronchitis
and whether his very poor oral hygiene and dental work can be
corrected prior to surgery. For these reasons , Dr. Kanda in
Cardiology was consulted as well as Dr. Sandidge in ERH Medicine and
both concurred that the patient could be discharged with close
follow-up by his primary care physician , Dr. Jess . His condition
on discharge was stable.
DISPOSITION: MEDICATIONS: On discharge included Bactrim DS , one
b.i.d. times seven days; imipramine , 50 mg po q h.s.;
Colace , 100 mg t.i.d.; Nystatin , 5 cc swish and spit q.i.d.;
Alupent , two puffs q six hours.
CM454/7427
KERMIT OSTERGREN , M.D. XM0 D: 8/18/91
Batch: 6987 Report: X3105B98 T: 7/14/91
Dictated By: MILTON M. ONLEY , M.D.
[report_end]
