RECORD #352974


756449360 | CHMC | 07759593 | | 2191437 | 7/6/2006 12:00:00 AM | HEART FAILURE | Unsigned | DIS | Admission Date: 8/19/2006 Report Status: Unsigned

Discharge Date: 5/1/2006
ATTENDING: MORRONE , NEAL LIONEL MD
DEATH SUMMARY
DATE OF DEATH:
5/1/06 . 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:
Mr. Zicherman was a 59-year-old who was admitted to Dalewan on 0/9/06 from an outside hospital with a
deteriorating ischemic cardiomyopathy. He had a myocardial infarction in 1996
and subsequently had coronary artery bypass grafting also in 1996 with
subsequent occlusion of two grafts. He had four previous stents in native
vessels , had a biventricular ICD placed in 2000 , and he also had a history of
hypertension and hyperlipidemia.
He was admitted with increasing signs and symptoms of heart failure and had
gone from class I failure to class IV over the 18 months prior to admission. He
was noted to have a BNP of 1600 and was being treated for pneumonia on
admission. He was initially evaluated for heart transplantation , but due to
clinical deterioration was considered for ventricular assist device. He
required inotropic support prior to surgery. There is no other surgical
history of note.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
As mentioned , also a history of mild polycythemia
and thrombocytopenia.
FAMILY / SOCIAL HISTORY:
Both parents had coronary artery bypass grafts. He had an
80-pack-year cigarette smoking history.
DRUG HISTORY:
At the time of assessment , he was receiving amiodarone 200 mg
three times a day , digoxin 0.125 mg once daily , aspirin 81 mg
once daily , heparin continuous infusion , Lasix continuous
infusion , dobutamine continuous infusion , milrinone continuous
infusion , spironolactone 25 mg once daily.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:
Examination revealed a midline sternotomy , respiratory crackles
bilaterally and a pansystolic murmur.
HOSPITAL COURSE:
On 7/14/06 , he underwent cardiac catheterization which showed
complete occlusion of OM2 , proximal RCA , proximal LAD , 90%
occlusion of the D1 , 100% occlusion of the ramus , 100% occlusion
of OM1. His LIMA to LAD graft was patent. He had a complete
occlusion of vein graft to RCA , 50% occlusion of vein graft to
D2. He was also noted to have pulmonary hypertension with mean
PA pressure of 48 mmHg and pulmonary capillary wedge pressure of
33. His cardiac output was 3.5 liters on dobutamine and
milrinone infusions. Echocardiogram showed an ejection fraction
of 15% , trivial AI , mild MR , moderate TR. EKG revealed atrial
flutter at a rate of 104. Chest x-ray was consistent with
congestive heart failure.
On 7/3/06 , he underwent reoperative insertion of a HeartMate left ventricular
assist device and tricuspid valvuloplasty. He was unable to tolerate
chest closure at the end of procedure as his central venous
pressure was high.
Postoperatively he was coagulopathic and inotrope and nitric oxide dependant.
On postoperative day #2 , some progress was made weaning inotropes and on
postoperative day #3 , he had a chest closure with a pericardial patch. He also
underwent exploratory laparotomy and sustained a VT arrest requiring
discontinuation of cardioversion. He continued to require nitric
oxide in view of high pulmonary vascular resistance. On 7/0/06 , he had a
further episodes of ventricular fibrillation and had multiple electrical
cardioversions and required amiodarone and epinephrine. Eventually , he
converted to AV paced rhythm. At this time , he required continued to require
significant inotropic support. He subsequently continued to have multiple
episodes of ventricular fibrillation which were converted with his AICD. At
this stage due to his ongoing hemodynamic instability , he was paralysed with
Nimbex , and his nitric oxide was increased for ongoing pulmonary hypertension.
He continued to be hemodynamically ustable. On postoperative day #5 ,
he developed cool and dusky extremities and was started on
bivalirudin although at this stage his HIT screen was negative. He also became
febrile with temperatures to 103. On postoperative days #6 , 7 and 8 , his PA
pressures slowly began to improve and some slow progress was made weaning his
epinephrine. At this stage , his bilirubin began to increase and he developed
some melanotic stool. He also developed renal failure and by
this stage , his creatinine increased to 2.9. By postoperative
day #9 , his Nimbex and fentanyl infusions were stopped. His PA
mean pressure had reduced to less than 30. He became febrile
fevers and developed some purulent discharge from the VAD driveline.
On postoperative day #12 , he underwent fluoroscopic placement of
a post-pyloric feeding tube and continued to spike temperatures.
His bilirubin continued to rise , and his ammonia level had also
risen. On postoperative day #14 , he continued to be unstable
with deteriorating liver function , ongoing renal failure ,
metabolic acidosis , ongoing fevers , hemodynamically instability
and episodes of ventricular tachycardia. He also had by this
stage developed irreversible loss of fingers and toes. Due to
his unrelenting and deteriorating multisystem organ failure , a
family meeting was held at which the poor prognosis was
discussed. The family elected to withdraw all support and on
5/1/06 , the AICD was switched off as was the ventilator and the
ventricular assist device and comfort measures were instituted.
Mr. Desilvo died at 7:30 p.m. on 5/1/06 from multiple organ
failure secondary to complications of ischemic cardiomyopathy and
placement of ventricular assist device.
eScription document: 2-3363104 EMSSten Tel
Dictated By: MIRA , BUDDY
Attending: GATTSHALL , BENNETT CRISTOPHER
Dictation ID 1218291
D: 4/2/06
T: 4/2/06
[report_end]
