RECORD #356095


205152955 | LMC | 64949094 | | 996389 | 3/8/1994 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 5/8/1994 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 10/25/1994
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS: CORONARY ARTERY DISEASE. PROBLEM LIST
INCLUDES:
1 ) HYPERTENSION.
2 ) ASTHMA.
3 ) DEGENERATIVE JOINT DISEASE.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This is a 73 year old gentleman with a
past medical history of hypertension
who presented to Dr. Burch at the Collstate on
4/10/94 after a couple of episodes of heavy diaphoresis and
nausea , an identifiable precipitant. His EKG there revealed new T
wave inversions in the inferior leads and he was admitted to the
Rexas& Hospital where he ruled out for myocardial infarction.
While at Hanghab Medical Center , his EKG alternated between left anterior
hemi-block and left posterior hemi-block. In addition , he had
further episodes of nausea and diaphoresis. Because of his
baseline conduction system disease , an exercise tolerance test
could not be performed and the patient was sent for an exercise
tolerance test thallium. However , prior to the test , the patient
became diaphoretic and nauseous with a non-palpable blood pressure.
He was treated with an intravenous fluid bolus with subsequent
improvement. Because he was felt too unstable to undergo a nuclear
imaging , he was transferred to the Hend Losblan Care to
undergo cardiac catheterization. The patient denied any paroxysmal
nocturnal dyspnea , orthopnea , or peripheral edema. He also denied
any recent change in exercise tolerance. PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
Significant for a history of rectal fissure , a small bowel
obstruction , microhematuria of uncertain etiology despite an
extensive work-up , diverticulosis , and hemorrhoids. He also has a
history of degenerative joint disease and a history of mild asthma.
His coronary risk factors include hypertension , obesity , gender ,
and age. ALLERGIES: None. CURRENT MEDICATIONS: Calan SR 240
p.o. q.d. , Beconase two puffs b.i.d. , Brethaire two puffs q.i.d. ,
Azmacort four puffs b.i.d. , Feldene 20 mg p.o. q.d. , and Aspirin
one p.o. q.d.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: This was a well-developed pleasant male in
no apparent distress with a blood pressure
of 154/82 , heart rate 74 , and respirations 14. HEENT:
Normocephalic , atraumatic , pupils equally round and reactive to
light and accommodation , extraocular movements intact , and
oropharynx was benign. NECK: Supple with no jugular venous
distention and he had a left carotid bruit , however , his carotid
upstrokes were normal. LUNGS: Clear to auscultation bilaterally.
CARDIAC: Examination revealed a very quiet precordium with a
regular rate and rhythm without any murmurs , gallops , or rubs.
EXTREMITIES: Revealed femoral pulses 2+ without bruits , dorsalis
pedis and posterior tibial pulses 1+ bilaterally , and he had no
clubbing , cyanosis , or edema.
LABORATORY EXAMINATION: Significant for a sodium of 140 , a
potassium of 4.4 , BUN of 28 , creatinine
1.7 , glucose of 110 , white count was 6.4 , hematocrit was 47.6 ,
platelets were 137 , 000 , his PT was 13.6 , and his PTT was 47.3. His
chest X-Ray at Andsi Medical Center revealed an enlarged heart with
no pulmonary infiltrates , his EKG from 2/10/94 at the Massbarre County Memorial Hospital revealed sinus bradycardia at 56 , left posterior
hemi-block with non-specific intraventricular conduction delay , and
poor R wave progression across his precordium. He had deep T wave
inversion in III and F , this EKG was also notable for a pattern of
alternating conduction delay with alternating pattern of left
anterior and left posterior hemi-block.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient underwent a cardiac catheterization
on 10/25/94 which revealed hemodynamics of a
right atrial mean of 6 , a right ventricular pressure of 28/6 , a
pulmonary capillary mean pressure of 14 , he had a totally occluded
mid left anterior descending lesion , a tight second diagonal
lesion , a totally occluded OM1 lesion , and a 70% distal right
coronary artery lesion. His left ventriculogram revealed
anteroapical hypokinesis. On further analysis of the patient's
EKG , it was felt that he alternated between left anterior
hemi-block and left posterior hemi-block. It was felt that his
symptoms may be an indication of more advanced conduction system
disease that would possibly justify a pacer. At this point , the
decision was to monitor the patient with Holter monitoring and to
perform a stress MIBI examination to assess if he degenerated to
more severe conduction disease. Holter monitoring on 0/19
revealed sinus rhythm between 40 and 85 , he had 14 hours of
occasional atrial premature beats , two hours of occasional
ventricular premature beats , each lasting less than a minute , as
well as intermittent intraventricular conduction delay. He had no
symptoms during the 24 hours of Holter monitoring. He exercise
tolerance test MIBI examination revealed a modified Bruce protocol
on which he went twelve minutes stopping secondary to leg fatigue ,
he had no chest pain , his maximum heart rate was 112 , his maximum
blood pressure was 195/95 , he had no change in his baseline EKG as
well as no ST changes , and no arrhythmias. His MIBI evaluation
revealed a fixed inferior defect extending to the posterior septum.
Given the above information , particularly the fact that the patient
did not degenerate to more severe conduction system disease with
exercise , it was felt that a pacer would not be necessary at this
time. Moreover , the patient had no provokeable ischemia by MIBI
evaluation and it was felt that revascularization was unnecessary.
The decision then was to send the patient home on an adequate
medical regimen which was achieved during his hospital course via
the addition of Captopril to his medical regimen to provide him
with adequate blood pressure control. It is noteworthy that the
patient had no episodes of nausea or diaphoresis during his
hospitalization , that is ambulating without assistance with no
symptoms whatsoever. He is therefore felt to be stable for
discharge and is being discharged to home.
OPERATIONS AND PROCEDURES: Cardiac catheterization on 10/25/94
with complications none.
DISPOSITION: DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Captopril 25 mg p.o. t.i.d. ,
Verapamil SR 180 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Ocean Spray two
puffs inhaler b.i.d. , Ecotrin 325 mg p.o. q.d. , Beconase two puffs
inhaler q.i.d. , Ventolin two puffs inhaler q.i.d. , and Azmacort
four puffs inhaler b.i.d. CONDITION ON DISCHARGE: Stable. The
patient is being discharged to home for follow-up with Dr. Patricia G Palenzuela on Berke in Arl Pringcori Ton in one week's time.
Dictated By: JOSEF CATINO , M.D. XA96
Attending: EDWARDO H. AMASS , M.D. FS8  TN503/9073
Batch: 5368 Index No. FONSWD1CO7 D: 10/26/94
T: 4/30/94
[report_end]
