RECORD #366034


367282205 | NDH | 01100475 | | 439914 | 3/19/1997 12:00:00 AM | INFERIOR MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 3/19/1997 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 4/22/1997
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS: MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION.
PROBLEM LIST: 1 ) STATUS POST ACUTE MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION.
2 ) PROSTATE CANCER DIAGNOSED 0/12 STATUS POST
RADIATION THERAPY.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Patient is a 69 year old man without
prior cardiac history. He had cardiac
risk factors including possible hypertension and possible history
of hypercholesterolemia. The patient had had a history of atypical
chest pain including cardiac work-up in the past with an echo in
1995 showing concentric left ventricular hypertrophy with
asymmetric septal hypertrophy. He had a normal ejection fraction
at this time. In 0/29 , he had an exercise tolerance test at which
time he went eight minutes with a maximal heart rate of 151 ,
maximum blood pressure of 226/90 , and no EKG changes. At 2 p.m. on
the day of admission , he developed substernal chest pain with
crushing tightness radiating to both shoulders and his jaw. He was
not short of breath. He experienced this pain on and off through
the afternoon although the pain was never completely gone. At 6
p.m. , he became acutely worse and at that time , called the EMT and
was brought to the Agund Hospital Emergency
Department. Within the Emergency Department , the patient was noted
to have ST elevations in the inferior leads. He was enrolled in
the TONSCHAPTECH MEDICAL CENTER trial. Infusion was begun at 8:15. The patient was
given Lopressor , oxygen , morphine , aspirin , and Heparin. He did
not drop his pressure with the sublingual nitroglycerin.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Included prostate cancer in 0/12 status
post x-ray therapy as well as a possible
transient ischemic attack in 1990.
ALLERGIES: The patient had no known drug allergies.
CURRENT MEDICATIONS: Zantac p.r.n.
FAMILY HISTORY: Negative for coronary artery disease.
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient was married with three children and he
denied any tobacco or alcohol use.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: On admission demonstrated a well appearing
black male in no acute distress. His vital
signs were a heart rate of 48 , blood pressure 83/30 in the
Emergency Department , and he was afebrile with oxygen saturation of
99% on two liters. HEENT: Examination showed oropharynx benign
and he had a left facial droop. NECK: Supple , 2+ carotids without
bruit , and jugular venous pressure was normal. CHEST: Clear to
auscultation bilaterally. HEART: Had a regular bradycardic rhythm
with a II/VI systolic ejection murmur. ABDOMEN: Soft , nontender ,
and nondistended with positive normal bowel sounds and no
organomegaly. EXTREMITIES: Warm , well perfused , and no clubbing ,
cyanosis , or edema with trace distal pulses. NEUROLOGICAL: He was
alert and oriented times three , cranial nerves II-XII were grossly
intact except for a left facial droop , and motor and sensory were
grossly intact.
LABORATORY EXAMINATION: On admission showed a sodium of 144 ,
potassium 4.2 , chloride 108 , bicarbonate
22 , BUN 16 , creatinine 1.3 , glucose 136 , white count was 8 with a
hematocrit of 35 , platelets were 239 , CK was 276 with an MB of 0.8 ,
troponin on admission was 0.0 , INR was 1.0 , and PTT was 22.6.
Patient's first EKG in the Emergency Department showed normal sinus
rhythm at 70 with first degree AV block , axis of 56 degrees , he had
ST elevations of 4 mm in leads III and aVF and 3 mm in II , and ST
depression of 0.5 to 3 mm in V2 through V5 , I , and aVL. Chest
x-ray did not show acute disease in the Emergency Department.
HOSPITAL COURSE: Within the Emergency Department , the patient
initially had resolution of his EKG changes but
had persistent jaw pain remaining at 8/15 .  He was taken to
catheterization which demonstrated a mid right coronary artery
lesion of approximately 95% with a clot but with TIMI 3 flow. No
intervention was done at that time. Patient initially required
vigorous intravenous hydration to maintain good blood pressure but
remained essentially stable and pain free. He had a drop in his
hematocrit from 35 on admission to 28 after his catheterization
secondary to blood loss at the right femoral triple-lumen site
placed in the Emergency Ward prior to TPA , blood loss at
catheterization , small hematoma , and dilution. He was given two
units of packed red blood cells with an appropriate bump in his
hematocrit. The patient was then transferred to the floor where he
maintained his good course. He had no postcatheterization or
postmyocardial infarction chest pain. The decision was then made
to take the patient back to the catheterization laboratory to have
PTCA with stenting of his lesion and to see if it continued to
persist. The patient was taken on the day prior to discharge back
to the catheterization laboratory where he was successfully
angioplastied and stented. Immediately on returning to the floor ,
the patient did have a rigor postcatheterization but he remained
afebrile and did well over the remainder of his hospital course.
It was felt that the rigor was probably related to allergic
reaction to the dye as he was treated with Benadryl and steroids
without complication.
DISPOSITION: The patient will have visiting nurse services. He
will have blood drawn to check platelets in two days
as he had a fall in his platelet level to 60 after the
administration of the reapro. He will also need follow-up CBC in
two and four weeks because he is on ticlid.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Enteric coated aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d. ,
Lopressor 25 mg p.o. t.i.d. , sublingual
nitroglycerin p.r.n. chest pain , Axid 150 mg p.o. b.i.d. , and
ticlid 250 mg p.o. b.i.d. to complete a two week course.
FOLLOW-UP: The patient will follow-up with Dr. Marvin Snachez ,
cardiologist with EANH .  He will have echocardiogram
done on his first hospital visit. The patient will also follow-up
with Dr. Lorenzo Campoverde in the clinical trial center as follow-up for
his participation in the OERD HOSPITAL study.
Dictated By: PETER KRENZ , M.D. HR71
Attending: LESTER THEO BEBOUT , M.D. PA7  YS023/2366
Batch: 03634 Index No. LHGZT50YAA D: 6/13/97
T: 10/12/97
[report_end]
