RECORD #367805


114656880 | PHMH | 34005199 | | 6517259 | 11/8/2006 12:00:00 AM | FEVER | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 2/23/2006 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 9/28/2006
ATTENDING: HAAPALA , DEAN MD
CHIEF COMPLAINT:
The patient came in with chief complaint of altered mental status
and questionable fever.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:
This is an 82-year-old male with multiple medical problems ,
coronary artery disease status post CABG , congestive heart
failure with EF of 30% in 2005 , diabetes , and renal insufficiency
with several recent hospitalizations who is discharged from the
hospital on 1/19/06 status post a CHF exacerbation , and a
pneumonia , and an UTI in the previous admission was complicated with Pseudomonas
and was treated with ceftriaxone , but then later on cefepime. Of note ,
Since then , the patient had a progressive changes in
mental status and increasing confusion with difficulty balancing
and becoming lethargic. Thus , prompted the patient to come to the
emergency room. In the ED , on 8/6/06 , the patient was
afebrile , vital signs stable , who was received vancomycin ,
ceftazidime and levofloxacin. At that point in time , a 1 liter
of normal saline.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION:
Temperature was 97.6 , heart rate in the 60s , blood pressure was
stable at 120/60 and 96% on 2 liters. The patient , otherwise ,
cardiac exam has a systolic murmur , which is right upper sternal
border. Abdominal exam was soft , mildly distended and hypoactive
with bowel sounds. The patient's extremities , on the right lower
extremity was noted to be amputated of metatarsals and in the
left extremity , posterior distal 5-cm area has a erythematous ,
warm area of pus muscle and fascia exposed , no bone area of overt
necrosis. No evidence of exposure of bone or no exposed bone or
any areas of overt necrosis.
LABORATORY DATA:
At that point , his lab was significant for creatinine 1.4 and BUN
of 25 , total bilirubin of 1.6 , and he has a 10.7 white blood
count and 37 of hematocrit. The patient's chest x-ray show
questionable right pulmonary edema versus pneumonia and the
patient also had received an echo in the past , which shows an EF
30% , an LVH , hypokinesis of the anterior wall and a mild MR. EKG
was sinus and mild left axis on admission day.
HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEM:
1. Infectious Disease: The patient has this open ulcer on the left
lower extremity on the posterior thigh shows a 5-8 cm area of
erythematous fascia and muscle exposed likely may be cellulitis ,
but at the time of admission , there was no pus drainage , but
erythema was noted with given patient's history of diabetes and
recent hospitalization and also pseudomonal infection from the wound , so the
patient will start to treat with vancomycin and Zosyn. However ,
culture shows a Staph , Pseudomonas and Gram-negative rods on
vancomycin and Zosyn , so we changed to ceftazidime and ultimately
changed to imipenem and vancomycin because of sensitivities.
Plastic surgery was consulted and asked for wet-to-dry dressing
and MRI was also achieved and shows no signs of osteomyelitis and
Plastic also thinks that the wound has been well taken care of
during his stay at the hospital , and the lesion has been stable.
The patient should be continued on vancomycin and imipenem as an outpatient and
should be followed by his primary care , Dr. Kory Dengel , in 2 weeks
for wound care as well as for infectious disease follow up.
Plastic , also recommended that the patient should have to
continue his wet-to-dry dressings for wound care. Plastic , also
recommended a cream called Ethezyme , which was instructed to
apply in the lower and upper margin of the ulcer and for daily bandage
changes.
2. Pulmonary: There were no active issues. There was a
questionable pneumonia , however , it was resolved spontaneously
with antibiotic treatment and chest x-ray has been unremarkable
with his following chest x-ray. The last chest x-ray that he
received was on 6/15/06 prior to discharge and it shows moderate
degenerative changes of the mid thoracic spine , but no
significant infiltrates was noted and no focal area of
consolidations. The patient had stable moderate cardiomegaly and
satisfactory positioning of the right central venous catheter ,
which is his PICC for the IV antibiotics. No acute
cardiopulmonary diseases were noted on chest x-ray.
3. Cardiovascular: The patient had a history of coronary artery
disease status post a CABG and a congestive heart failure with EF
of 30% status post recent admission for CHF on exacerbation. The
patient was admitted to the hospital with the monitoring of
strict Ins and Outs with daily weight but no apparent active
issues during the hospital stay. The patient has a fluid
restricted diet of less tan 1500 mL and the patient was on
antihypertensive , aspirin , Plavix , as well as on a cardiovascular
diet. Of note , the patient's captopril 12.5 mg p.o. q. 8h. was
changed to lisinopril 5 mg p.o. daily. So , we had to increase
his Lasix to 80 mg p.o. b.i.d. at the beginning because of mildly
elevated BNP , however , we decreased a Lasix to 40 mg daily due to
over diuresis and the patient has been doing well for with
negative diuresis of about 1 liter.
4. Hematology: The patient hematocrit has been stable , however ,
that has been stable at 37 and on discharge it was 32 ( please refer to GI for
details ).
5. GI: The patient had a blood cards , has been no issues of
irregular bowel movement about once every two days has been on a
bowel regimen. However , about 2 days prior to discharge on
9/23/06 early morning the patient had a bowel.
HOSPITAL COURSE:
Gastroenterology: The patient has no active GI issues during
this whole hospital stay. However , on 9/23/06 , early morning ,
the patient had a one huge bowel movement which included blood
clots that were witnessed by nursing. At that point in time , we
got a hematocrit back and it was 33 , and previous patient's
hematocrit was 37. Due to this event , the patient was asked to
stay in the hospital for one more night for further evaluation.
A GI consult was called from Hoag F.ka Health , Dr. Haisley ,
and Dr. Cutwright reveals that that the patient actually had a
colonoscopy about a year ago , which shows diverticuli ,
hemorrhoids as well as a cecal AVM that is not actively bleeding.
Dr. Klase , who was the attending at this point in time ,
recommended that we should follow up one more set of labs to make
sure that the patient was not actively bleeding prior to
discharge , and the patient's hematocrit on 2/21/06 , morning , was
32 as well as on 3/29/05 , morning , was 33 and it was stable.
Overnight , the patient did not have any bowel movement.
Renal: In terms of renal , the patient's creatinine has been
stable between 1 to 1.2. The patient's admission creatinine was
1.4 , which has slowly dropped between 1 to 1.2. The patient does
in the past have elevated creatinine which resolved
spontaneously.
Endocrine: In terms of endocrine , the patient is a type II
diabetic , which was covered by sliding scale , and the patient
does have elevated TSH , low TFTs , and due to the patient's
history of lithium use , there is no need for Synthroid currently.
The patient's glucose has been well controlled in the hospital
with Lantus of 10 units , and it has been ranging between 110 to
140. The patient will need regular fingerstick of a.c. and at
bedtime before meal time and also at night to ensure that the
patient is covered by enough insulin.
Neurology: In terms of neurology exam , the patient had a CT scan
that was negative , and talking to family members , the patient
actually has returned back to his original mental status. The
patient does have some hearing problem , so it is extremely
important to speak to the patient clearly and may be at times
have to whisper to the patient's ears for him to able to
understand the communication. The patient had negative CT scan ,
but however , his physical is consistent with Parkinson's disease.
During the evening time as well as early morning time , the
patient does have waxing and waning episodes where the patient
starts to get confused in terms of times and day as well as
place. However , usually after breakfast , the patient will become
alert and oriented x3 again.
Prophylaxis: The patient is on PPI and Lovenox.
The patient was going to be discharged home on antibiotics. The
patient has completed his 10 days of imipenem antibiotics and
vancomycin of 13 days and the patient will continue antibiotics
for the next one to two weeks and will follow up with Dr. Clarence G Verge , and his clinic number is 837-033-9865. The patient was
discharged home with following medications and they are aspirin
81 mg p.o. daily , albuterol nebulizer 2.5 mg nebs q.4 h. and
p.r.n. for shortness of breath , Dulcolax 10 mg PR daily p.r.n.
for constipation , Celexa 20 mg p.o. daily , Plavix 75 mg p.o.
daily , Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , enoxaparin , which is the
Lovenox , 30 mg subcutaneously for prophylaxis , Nexium 20 mg p.o.
daily for prophylaxis , Ethezyme one applicator topical b.i.d. ,
that will be applied on his wound on the upper and the lower
edges of the ulcerated region and also he would need dressing
change in association with the application of the cream , folic
acid 1 mg p.o. daily , Lasix 40 mg p.o. daily , and imipenem 500 mg
IV q.8 h. He is on Lantus 10 units subcutaneous q.p.m. , and he
is also covered with Insulin Regular sliding scale. If insulin
is less than 125 , should not give any units , if it is between 125
and 150 , give 2 units , if it is between 151 and 200 , should given
3 units subcutaneously , if it is between 201 and 250 , should give
4 units , if it is between 251 and 300 , should give 6 units , and
if it is between 301 to 350 , should give 8 units , and if higher
than 350 , should give 10 units. The patient is also on Imdur 90
mg p.o. daily , hold if systolic pressure less than 100 and heart
rate less than 55 , lactulose 30 mL b.i.d. p.r.n. for
constipation , Synthroid 137 mcg p.o. daily , lisinopril 5 mg p.o.
daily , and Maalox tablets one to two tablets p.o. q.6 h. p.r.n.
for upset stomach , he will not be discharged to rehabilitation
center with magnesium , Zaroxolyn 2.5 mg twice weekly , Lopressor
12.5 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Zyprexa 2.5 mg p.o. p.r.n. for anxiety and
usually given at bedtime , oxycodone 5 mg p.o. q.6 h. p.r.n. for
pain , senna , which is a tablet for his GI , two tablets p.o.
b.i.d. p.r.n. for constipation , multivitamins one tablet p.o.
daily , and vancomycin 1 g IV q.12 h.
DISCHARGE CONDITION:
Stable.
CODE STATUS:
DNR. No CRP , no defibrillation , and no intubation.
DISCHARGE INSTRUCTIONS:
1. The patient will continue antibiotics , imipenem and
vancomycin. The patient had 10 days of completed imipenem at the
hospital and vancomycin of 13 days , and the patient will be
continued on imipenem and vancomycin until further notice by his
primary care doctor , Dr. Elmo Birky , in two weeks.
2. The patient will continue to have dressing changes b.i.d.
wet-to-dry on his left lower extremity with Ethezyme cream
applied on the lower upper edges of the ulcerated lesion.
3. The patient should continue to have a a.c. and at bedtime
blood glucose monitoring for the rehab stay. The patient will
continue to have blood glucose checked as a continued basis. In
terms of endocrine at this point in time , the patient is covered
by Lantus 10 units and covered by sliding scale. The patient
should also continue to have strict ins and outs and also daily
weights after discharge.
eScription document: 2-2829164 EMSSten Tel
Dictated By: MAZON , EMERY
Attending: LAMPINEN , WALTER
Dictation ID 8216852
D: 2/21/06 \.br&amp;.br\: 2/21/06
[report_end]
