RECORD #368044
479191088 | AMH | 88059835 | | 8604406 | 5/19/2006 12:00:00 AM | FEVER | Unsigned | DIS | Admission Date: 7/16/2006 Report Status: Unsigned
Discharge Date: 7/16/2006
ATTENDING: BAIRAM , TEODORO GEOFFREY MD
DISPOSITION: Rehab Facility.
CHIEF COMPLAINT: Fever.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This is an 86-year-old woman with a
history of diastolic dysfunction , PMR , insulin-dependent
diabetes , adrenal insufficiency , and partial SBO , who is
transferred from Shan Hospitals Of with recurrence of fever
after a recent discharge from Ouh On Valley Health
during , which she was treated for pneumonia. The patient had a
recent admission to Harbanburkehead Health from 8/1/06 to
9/27/06 , during which she was treated for a urinary tract
infection and pneumonia and discharged to Crit Community Memorial Hospital
with a PICC line for complete the course of levofloxacin and
vancomycin. She had transient hypertension during that previous
admission , but otherwise did well was initially treated with
ceftriaxone , vancomycin and then levofloxacin and vancomycin and
discharged to rehab. She has been feeling well during the since
then , on the night prior admission , she was noted to have a
temperature of 101.8 with mild nausea. She denied any other
associated symptoms. She is also noted to have an increasing
oxygen requirement at the Rehab Facility increased from baseline
of good saturations of room air up to requirement of 3 L nasal
cannula to maintain her oxygen saturation.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1. Congestive heart failure. An echocardiogram in July of
2005 showed an ejection fraction of 60% with diastolic
dysfunction. Pulmonary artery systolic pressure of 49 plus a
right atrial pressure and trace regurgitation in all valves.
2. PMR.
3. Hypertension.
4. GERD.
5. Hypothyroidism.
6. History of TIA.
7. Osteoarthritis.
8. Legally blind.
9. Status post cholecystectomy.
10. Depression.
11. History of Nissen fundoplication.
12. Adrenal insufficiency from a history of chronic steroid use
in the past , now maintained on hydrocortisone.
MEDICATIONS ON TRANSFER FROM GOOCHARLE HOSPITAL ARE AS FOLLOWS:
1. Levofloxacin 500 mg p.o. q.48 h.
2. Vancomycin 1 gm IV q.24 h.
3. Norvasc 5 mg p.o. daily.
4. Aspirin 81 mg p.o. daily.
5. Lumigan drops OU nightly.
6. Dulcolax 5 mg p.o. daily.
7. Captopril 12.5 mg p.o. t.i.d.
8. Colace p.o. b.i.d.
9. Insulin NPH 16 units q.a.m. and 6 units q.p.m.
10. Remeron 15 mg nightly.
11. Synthroid 88 mcg p.o. daily.
12. Multivitamin.
13. Protonix 40 mg p.o. daily.
14. Zocor 20 mg p.o. daily.
15. Iron 325 mg p.o. daily.
16. Guiatuss 10 mg p.o. q.i.d.
17. Allegra 60 mg p.o. daily.
18. Hydrocortisone 30 mg p.o. q.a.m.
19. Milk of magnesia p.r.n.
20. Epoetin 60 , 000 units subq every Saturday.
ALLERGIES: Sulfa , azathioprine , sertraline , and metoclopramide.
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient never smoked , use alcohol or drugs.
Her son is very involved and confirms that the patient is
DNR/DNI.
FAMILY HISTORY: Noncontributory.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: On admission , the temperature is 98.6 ,
heart rate 70 , respiratory rate 16 , blood pressure 133/61 , oxygen
saturation was 79% on room air and increased in 94% on 3 L nasal
cannula. In general , the patient appeared comfortable with
pleasant and convulsant and blind. Neck showed a JVP of 7.
Chest exam was with left basilar crackles no wheezes. Heart was
regular rate and rhythm with a 2/6 systolic ejection murmur at
the left upper sternal border. Abdomen was soft , nontender , and
nondistended with normal bowel sounds. Extremities with no
clubbing , cyanosis , or edema.
LABORATORY DATA: On admission were significant for potassium of
4.5 , BUN of 23 , creatinine 1.6 , which is at her baseline of 1.4
to 1.6. White blood cell count of 5.7 , hematocrit 27.3 from a
baseline of 26 to 29 , platelets of 347 , 000. Coagulation studies
were normal. Liver function tests were normal. Cardiac enzymes
were negative. Chest x-ray showed no change in the left lower
lobe infiltrate , since 10/30/06. An EKG showed Q-wave
flattening , but no changes from her prior EKGs. Normal sinus
rhythm.
IMPRESSION: This is an 86-year-old woman with multiple medical
problems including congestive heart failure , diabetes , and
adrenal insufficiency , who presents with recurrent fevers through
levofloxacin and vancomycin.
HOSPITAL COURSE:
1. Infectious Disease. Initially , the source of her repeated
fevers was unclear. Multiple cultures were sent including urine
cultures , stool studies , peripheral blood cultures and blood
cultures from the PICC sputum cultures and induced sputum with
testing for PCP , given her history of chronic steroid uses
without PCP prophylaxis. All of these came back negative with
the exception of one blood culture from the PICC , which grew
coagulase negative Staphylococcus aureus. So , the PICC line was
discontinued and the tip sent for culture , which was negative.
After discontinuation of the PICC line , the patient did not have
any further fevers. The remainder of her admission , which was
greater than 72 hours. The induced sputum for PCP was also
negative and the patient was then started on PCP prophylaxis with
Mepron ( given her sulfa allergy ) to be continued until she had
completed her gradual tapper off of steroids. She completed the
levofloxacin and vancomycin courses , which were started on the
previous admission , for pneumonia and did not have any further
fevers after completing these antibiotics. A PPD was placed ,
which was negative.
2. Endocrine. The patient has a history of hypothyroidism ,
adrenal insufficiency secondary to chronic steroids in the past
and insulin-dependent diabetes. Her TSH was checked and was
normal on admission. So , she was continued on her home dose of
Synthroid. Further instructions through her primary care
provider. Her hydrocortisone was slightly decreased and her slow
taper will be further directed by her primary care provider after
discharge. Her insulin regimen was up titrated with the addition
of the q.a.c. Novalog , given her high fingerstick blood glucoses.
She should continue on this increased regimen after discharge.
3. Pulmonary. On admission , the patient was noted to be hypoxic
on room air with an oxygen saturation of 79% to 80% , which
increased to 93% on 2 L to 3 L of nasal cannula. Given this new
hypoxia and her chronic decreased ambulation , she was sent for a
CT angiogram of the chest , which was negative for PE. The study
also shows small bilateral pleural effusion and mild pulmonary
edema. Resolution of her previous pneumonia and possibly
reactive mediastinal lymphadenopathy. Given this data , she was
restarted on Lasix with diuresis , titrated to 1 L negative per
day and was sound well. Given this data , she was restarted on
Lasix with the diuresis titrated to 1 L negative per day and
responded well. She had decreasing shortness of breath and
improved room air oxygen saturation up to 85% at the time of
discharge. She is continued to be maintained on oxygen of 2 L
nasal cannula with good oxygen saturation and is anticipated to
have a successful gradual wean from oxygen as her diuresis
continue after discharge. The Pulmonary Service was consulted
and followed her agreeing with the diagnosis of pulmonary edema.
They also recommended a followup noncontrast chest CT in 2 to 4
weeks after discharge to reevaluate her mediastinal
lymphadenopathy after a period of diuresis. A followup
appointment was made with Dr. Soucek at the Chest Clinic at
Sio Sane Hospital for two weeks following discharge.
Pulmonary function test were completed , which showed a
restrictive defect , which the Pulmonary Service felt could be
attributed to her volume overload. An echo showed an increased
pulmonary artery systolic pressure at 47 plus the right atrial
pressure consistent with previous echo done in July of 2005.
Thus , this was not considered to be new pathology , nor likely
related to her new hypoxia.
4. Hematologic. The patient has a known diagnosis of iron
deficiency anemia as well as anemia of chronic disease and is
maintaining on iron and epoetin as an outpatient. There were no
signs or symptoms of bleeding throughout this admission and she
not required a blood transfusion at any point. She should
continue on her outpatient regimen of iron and epoetin after
discharge. Iron studies done on this admission showed adequate
iron repletion with her current regimen.
5. Cardiovascular. There was no evidence of ischemia throughout
the admission. Given her findings of pulmonary edema on chest CT
and her history of diastolic congestive heart failure , she was
started on Lasix 20 mg IV b.i.d. with effective diuresis noted.
This was transitioned to a p.o. regimen of 40 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,
which will be continued after discharge and titrated to her
weight loss. She was also continued on her outpatient Zocor ,
Norvasc and lisinopril.
6. Renal. The patient has a history of chronic renal
insufficiency. She received Mucomyst and bicarbonate in her IV
fluids , prior to her CT angiogram of the chest with prophylaxis
against contrast nephropathy. Her creatinine remained stable at
1.6 for remainder of the admission , which was greater than 72
hours. All mediations were appropriately renally dosed. She
should continue followup with her primary care provider regarding
her chronic renal insufficiency in the future.
7. Fluid , Electrolytes , and Nutrition. The patient was
maintained on any IV fluids except as prophylaxis for her CT
angiogram. The potassium and magnesium were repeated as needed
and she was maintained on the renal , cardiac ADA diet.
8. Prophylaxis: She was maintained on t.i.d. subq heparin for
DVT prophylaxis and Nexium for GI prophylaxis as well as an
aggressive bowel regimen , given her history of chronic
constipation.
9. Code Status: The patient is DNR/DNI and her son John Durazo , is the healthcare proxy.
DISCHARGE PLAN: The patient will be discharged back to Mclemens Hospital Of County to continue physical therapy to regain some independence
with her activities of daily living and more specifically to
regain some independence and the activities , which she enjoys
such as playing the piano. She will have followup with her
primary care provider , Dr. Pacetti regarding general plan for her
care including gradual hydrocortisone taper , her Lasix dosing and
her diabetes management. She will also followup at the chest
clinic with Dr. Tobola regarding her PCP prophylaxis and the
possibly of repeat chest CT regarding the question of her
mediastinal lymphadenopathy seen on CT during this admission.
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE:
1. Aspirin 81 mg p.o. daily.
2. Albuterol nebulizer q.4 h. p.r.n. wheezing or shortness of
breath.
3. Norvasc 5 mg p.o. daily.
4. Mepron 750 mg p.o. b.i.d.
5. Lumigan one drop OU nightly.
6. Dulcolax 5 mg p.o. daily.
7. Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.
8. Nexium 40 mg p.o. daily.
9. Iron 325 mg p.o. b.i.d.
10. Allegra 60 mg p.o. daily.
11. Lasix 40 mg p.o. b.i.d.
12. Neurontin 300 mg p.o. nightly.
13. Hydrocortisone 20 mg p.o. q.a.m.
14. Aspart insulin sliding scale q.a.c.
15. Aspart insulin 8 units subq q.a.c.
16. NPH insulin 20 units subq q.a.m. and 6 units subq nightly.
17. Synthroid 88 mcg p.o. daily.
18. Lisinopril 7.5 mg p.o. daily.
19. Remeron 15 mg p.o. nightly.
20. Senna 2 tablets p.o. b.i.d.
21. Zocor 20 mg p.o. nightly.
22. Multivitamin one tablet p.o. daily.
23. Epoetin 60 , 000 units subq every Saturday.
eScription document: 0-6897868 CSSten Tel
Dictated By: PODRASKY , KEVEN
Attending: ESKE , MAURICIO THAD
Dictation ID 9113086
D: 0/16/06
T: 0/16/06
[report_end]
