RECORD #370707
341782812 | IMC | 82129084 | | 075826 | 8/27/1992 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 8/27/1992 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 8/26/1993
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 53-year-old right
handed man who was admitted to the
neurology service on 11/6/92. He has a two week history of right
sided slowly improving. The neurology service felt that the
findings on exam was most consistent with cervical disc disease and
they asked neurosurgery to consult. In brief , the patient's chief
complaint is right sided weakness. The patient was in his usual
state of health until approximately three and a half weeks prior to
admission. He noted pain in his right shoulder over four to five
hours , the pain increased. He also noted numbness in his right
toes. His right hand was weak as well and he had difficulty
holding a cup. Conservative management failed , i.e. , bedrest. He
came to the emergency room at the request of his local doctor and
was admitted to the neurology service. While here , on Decadron ,
Motrin and Flexeril , he noted some improvement. Of note , he fell
flat on his face first on 3/16/92 and sustained a sprained ankle.
At that time , he had no back or neck pain. While in house , he felt
that he could walk three times around the Ingnorf At that point , he
experienced weakness and numbness on the fourth trip around. He
has also noted some urgency since the onset of his neck pain. He
has normal peroneal sensation except for the transient occurrences
of some saddle distribution of abnormal sensation. He has
constipation which has now improved. PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: L4-5
laminectomy in 1970 and 1982. In 1980 , he had a perforated ulcer.
In 1982 , he had surgery for a hiatal hernia. In 1983 , he had a
cholecystectomy. In 1984 , he had a partial gastrectomy and
colectomy for swallowing a toothpick. He has a history of anxiety
attacks related to highway driving. He is a past smoker , stopped
seven years ago after three packs per day times 40 years. History
of alcohol abuse but does not drink now. He has no cardiac ,
respiratory or GI disturbances.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: On admission revealed the patient to be
afebrile. Vital signs were stable. General
exam was within normal limits. He had full range of motion with
increased pain with extension of his neck. He was alert and
oriented with a normal mental status. Speech was fluent with no
dysarthria. Cranial nerves were entirely within normal limits. He
had no pronator drift. On the left he was 5/5 throughout. On the
right he had 5- strength in his biceps , triceps , wrist extensors
and intrinsics. Hip flexors were 4/5. Knee flexors and knee
extensors were 4/5. He was essentially 5/5 throughout the rest of
his lower extremities. His reflexes were 1-2+ in his upper
extremities and approximately 3+ at the knees with downgoing toes.
He had 3-4 beat clonus on the right. Coordination was okay
bilaterally. Gait tested revealed a tendency to fall with
decreased ability to weight bear on the right. Sensory exam
revealed decreased sensation in the right hand and the last three
digits of the left hand. He had no subjective numbness in his
right leg , on the dorsum of his left foot , he had decreased
sensation with a cut off before the toes.
MRI was a poor quality study which showed C5-6 and C6-7 disc bulge.
CAT scan showed severe stenosis of C6-7 with osteophyte , moderate
stenosis at C5-6.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was seen by Dr. Dubey who agreed
with the plan for C5-6 and C6-7 laminectomies.
He was taken to the operating room on 0/8/93. Preoperative
diagnosis with cervical stenosis with myelopathy. Postoperative
diagnosis was the same. The procedure was C4-5 , C5-6 , C6-7
laminectomy. He had a Hemovac placed postoperatively. The
estimated blood loss was less than 100 cc. Postoperatively , he did
very well. He had good upper extremity strength which seemed to
improve. He was seen by physical therapy. He had a slightly
swollen calf and had noninvasive vascular studies of his lower
extremities which were negative. He did , however , note some
shooting pain in his left lower extremity. His wound was clean and
healing well. He was out of bed with a walker. The plan was for
discharge home. He may need further evaluation of his lumbar spine
at some point but he seems to be doing well with Percocet only.
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: CERVICAL SPONDYLOSIS STATUS POST MULTIPLE
LEVEL CERVICAL LAMINECTOMIES.
HISTORY OF LUMBAR DISC DISEASE.
HISTORY OF ALCOHOL AND TOBACCO ABUSE ,
NONE CURRENTLY.
PERFORATED ULCER.
HIATAL HERNIA.
STATUS POST CHOLECYSTECTOMY , GASTRECTOMY
AND COLECTOMY.
ANXIETY ATTACKS.
DISPOSITION: MEDICATIONS: On discharge included Colace ,
klonopin , Flexeril and Percocet. He will follow-up
with Dr. Mcnail in one to two weeks.
Dictated By: ROCCO TANDON , M.D. ZH67
Attending: PEDRO BADOUR , M.D. QY35
VP775/4731
Batch: 4920 Index No. TQZQOXVFE D: 6/21/93
T: 0/16/93
[report_end]
