RECORD #373468
742701656 | HMMC | 02652563 | | 236191 | 10/20/1994 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 8/26/1994 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 2/9/1994
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: 1. RIGHT-SIDED CEREBROVASCULAR ACCIDENT.
OTHER DIAGNOSES: 1. TYPE II DIABETES.
2. HYPERTENSION.
3. RIGHT SHOULDER PAIN.
4. HOOK WORM ENTERITIS.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 63 year-old Hispanic
man with a history of a left-sided
cerebrovascular accident , with a dense right hemiparesis , who
presented to the Emergency Room at Villera Hospital Medical Center on
19 of July , complaining of left-sided facial numbness , and left upper
extremity numbness since awakening that morning. The patient has a
history of non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus , hypertension
and hyperlipidemia , as well as a past history of a left hemispheric
stroke with a right-sided hemiparesis , who awoke the morning of
admission with left lip numbness. Over the subsequent few hours ,
the patient's numbness progressed to include the entire left
one-half of his face. By 10 o'clock in the morning , his entire
left arm was also numb. His left lower extremity was also
involved. In the Emergency Room , an EKG was done , and revealed
subtle ST segment depressions in leads II , and V4 through V6 , as
well as .5 mm of ST depression in lead I. There were no comparison
EKGs available. The patient denied any chest pain , shortness of
breath , nausea , vomiting or diaphoresis. Given his history of
myocardial infarction that he states may have occurred in the past ,
as well as numerous coronary risk factors , he was admitted for rule
out of myocardial infarction and evaluation of his left-sided
numbness.
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: Included Procardia XL 30 mg p.o. q.d. ,
Glyburide 5 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Dyazide.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Significant for: ( 1 ) Left-sided
cerebrovascular accident in 1989. ( 2 )
Hypertension. ( 3 ) Chronic right upper extremity pain after his
initial cerebrovascular accident. ( 4 ) Type II diabetes.
ALLERGIES: Penicillin , with unknown reaction.
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient is a resident of Et ,
Call Eansirancea . He denies alcohol or tobacco use.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: The patient was a thin , Hispanic male in no
acute distress , and pleasant. His vital
signs were: Blood pressure 150/88 , with a pulse of 86 , and a
respiratory rate of 20. His saturation was 96% on room air. His
temperature was 98.4. HEENT: Pupils equal , round , reactive to
light and accommodation; extraocular muscles intact. Pharynx was
clear. Neck was supple without adenopathy. There was no increased
jugular venous pressure. Lungs were clear to auscultation
bilaterally , with the exception of mild bibasilar crackles.
Cardiac exam showed regular rate and rhythm with a II/VI systolic
ejection murmur at the left lower sternal border , with radiation to
the left axilla. Abdomen was soft , non-tender , with positive bowel
sounds. Extremities were without cyanosis , clubbing or edema.
There were no cords and no Homan's sign was present. On
neurological exam , the patient showed cranial nerves II through XII
grossly intact. The patient did , however , have loss of the right
shoulder shrug. On motor exam , the patient was 5/5 in all major
muscle groups on the left-hand side , and 4/5 in all major muscle
groups on the right-hand side. The patient was also somewhat
hyperreflexic on the right upper and lower extremities. Babinski
was down going on the right , and withdrawal on the left. On
sensory exam , the patient had decreased pin prick on the left
aspect of the fact , from V1 to V3 , and numbness of the left upper
extremity. Light touch was intact bilaterally. Proprioception was
also intact bilaterally.
LABORATORY DATA ( on admission ): Included a potassium of 3.4 , a BUN
of 13 , a creatinine of 0.8 , a
glucose of 226. His white blood cell count was 6.3; his hematocrit
was 44.9 , and his platelet count was 196. AST and ALT were 21 and
31 , respectively. LDH was 155. Total bilirubin was 0.5.
Cholesterol was 201. Calcium was 10.2 , with an albumin of 4.7.
EKG demonstrated normal sinus rhythm at 75 , with .5 mm of ST
segment depression in lead I , and 1 mm of ST depression in leads II
and V4 through V6. Chest x-ray was clear bilaterally. There was
cardiomegaly present. There was question of a left lower lobe
opacity. There were no signs of congestive heart failure. Head CT
without contrast showed an old left centrum semiovale lesion ,
consistent with with a watershed infarct. There was no evidence of
acute bleed.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient is a 63 year-old Hispanic male with
the following important medical issues to be
managed:
( 1 ) Cardiovascular. The patient presented without chest pain , but
EKG changes , including .5 mm of ST segment depression in lead I ,
and 1 mm of ST segment depression in leads II , and V4 through V6.
There was no prior EKG for comparison. Given his multiple cardiac
risk factors , a decision was made to rule the patient out for
myocardial infarction. His serial creatinine kinase levels were
67/74/115. Given the low levels , there was no MB fractionation
done. The patient also was placed on Holter monitor to attempt to
rule out a dysrhythmic etiology of his deficit. Holter showed
predominantly a normal sinus rhythm at a rate of 442 to 98. There
were 7 atrial premature beats , and 5 ventricular premature beats ,
as well as a 12-beat run of supraventricular tachycardia at a rate
of 125 , and a 6-beat run of ventricular tachycardia at 144. All of
these were asymptomatic. The patient underwent transthoracic
echocardiography while an inpatient , to rule out a vegetative
source of emboli , which may have resulted in his change in
sensation. Echocardiogram demonstrated concentric left ventricular
hypertrophy with an ejection fraction of 65%. There was a
thickened aortic leaflet with calcification of the right and left
coronary cusps of the aortic valve. No shunt was visualized. The
patient had no occurrence of chest pain or shortness of breath
while admitted to the Louili Mi Hospital . These events
were thought to be entirely non-cardiac in nature , and he was
removed from Telemetry. The patient's hypertension was managed
with Nifedipine 10 mg p.o. t.i.d. during this admission , and
switched to 30 mg of Nifedipine XL p.o. q.d. as an outpatient. His
blood pressure should be followed as an outpatient , and additions
and adjustments made accordingly.
( 2 ) Neurologic. The patient was admitted with what appeared to be
a purse sensory defect of the right hemisphere , resulting in left
facial and upper extremity numbness. He was seen in consultation
by the Neurology Service. CT scan of the head without contrast in
the Emergency Room was negative for acute bleed. In the Emergency
Room , the patient received one enteric coated aspirin , and he was
not started on intravenous heparinization. It was unclear ,
initially , whether the etiology of this patient's change in
neurological status was secondary to embolic phenomena or possibly
a second watershed infarct. Given his negative echocardiogram of
the heart , as well as a negative Holter monitor , it was thought
that the etiology of this patient's left-sided facial numbness was
not cardiac in nature. It was the feeling of the Neurology Service
that the patient had experienced a right-sided subcortical infarct ,
probably in the right thalamus region. He was also noted to have
risk factors for small vessel disease , including hypertension and
diabetes. His numbness appeared to be resolving on aspirin alone;
however , on the second day of admission , the patient began to
develop dysarthria. There was concern that the patient was having
an evolving cerebrovascular accident that was involving the
brainstem , given tongue involvement. He was thus started on
intravenous heparinization. His dysarthria promptly resolved. He
underwent MRI with and without contrast of the head , three days
after the initial event , which demonstrated only right-sided small
vessel disease. There was no evidence of acute bleed or underlying
vascular abnormality. Given the small vessel disease in this
patient , he was taken off intravenous heparin and continued on one
aspirin a day. He did well during the remainder of his stay. He
was seen in consultation by Physical Therapy and Occupational
Therapy , who , in conjunction with the patient's family , believed
that he was at a somewhat decreased level of functioning from his
baseline , given his sensory changes. He is thus to be sent for
inpatient rehabilitation for his new cerebrovascular accident , and
then to be followed as an outpatient in Dr. Lacrosse 's clinic. He
will continue on one aspirin a day for life. His right-sided
scapular and shoulder pain is chronic , after sustaining his initial
left-sided cerebrovascular accident. It should be treated with
physical therapy , including ultrasound and stretching maneuvers.
The patient was also placed on Naproxen for pain relief.
Muscle relaxants may be tried as an outpatient if the above stated
efforts do not help reduce this patient's pain.
( 3 ) Infectious disease. This patient had no infectious
complications while hospitalized. He was , however , found to have a
slight peripheral eosinophilia during this admission , and was
evaluated by O&amp;P of the stool. Stool evaluation showed moderate
hook worm eggs , as well as rare Trichuris trichiura eggs. He was
treated with three days of Mebendazole.
( 4 ) Endocrine. The patient has a history of Type II diabetes , on
Diabeta. The patient's blood glucose levels were checked by finger
stick four times daily , and were in the 190's to 240's range during
this admission. He was covered with a CZI sliding scale of regular
insulin. The patient was advised by Dietary on the American
Diabetic Association diet. He is to continue as an outpatient on
Glyburide 5 mg p.o. b.i.d.
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE: Enteric coated aspirin 325 mg p.o. q.d.;
Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.; Glyburide 5
mg p.o. b.i.d.; Naprosyn 375 mg p.o. b.i.d. , with meals; Nifedipine
XL 30 mg p.o. q.d.; sublingual nitroglycerin 1/150 , one tablet
sublingually q.5 minutes times three , then call M.D.
CONDITION ON DISCHARGE: Good.
DISPOSITION: The patient was discharged on 22 of November to
rehabilitation at Sco Hospital .
FOLLOW UP: He is to follow up in clinic with Dr. Hiers in EEN MEDICAL CENTER ,
at his first available appointment.
COMPLICATIONS: There were no complications during this stay.
Dictated By: SAM MINALGA , M.D.
Attending: EDMOND H. JUDIE , M.D. VP02
WX941/1346
Batch: 121 Index No. WDBM10559D D: 0/22/94
T: 0/22/94
CC: USRI MEMORIAL HOSPITAL HEALTH CENTER
[report_end]
