RECORD #374148


275653997 | ZNMH | 37345466 | | 559009 | 2/24/1994 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 2/24/1994 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 4/29/1994
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The chief complaint is abdominal
distention , nausea , and vomiting.
Patient is a 49 year old black female with the onset of mild
epigastric pain , nausea , and vomiting developing several hours
before presentation to the Emergency Room. She has a history of
hypertension , borderline diabetes mellitus , hiatal hernia , and
umbilical hernia. Patient went to sleep on the night of
presentation with mild pain and awoke in the middle of the night
with more severe pain. The pain was intermittent and came in waves
approximately every three to five minutes , somewhat positional , and
worse with lying or standing. She denied shortness of breath and
she said her last bowel movement was earlier on the evening of
presentation which the patient reported as normal in consistency.
She denied bright red blood per rectum and she denied any urinary
tract symptoms. She also denied any gynecological/vaginal
symptoms. PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Significant for: 1 ) Umbilical
hernia/ventral hernia. 2 ) Hiatal hernia. 3 ) Bilateral tubal
ligation. 4 ) Left lower extremity venous insufficiency. 5 )
Hypertension. 6 ) Borderline diabetes mellitus. CURRENT
MEDICATIONS: None. ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: She was afebrile , heart rate was 76 , blood
pressure of 160/100 , and room air saturation
of 89%. GENERAL: She was an obese black female in moderate
distress. HEENT: Anicteric and 2+ carotid pulses with no bruits.
CHEST: Had distant lung sounds. CARDIAC: Examination was regular
with a I/VI systolic ejection murmur. ABDOMEN: Examination was
large and obese with a ventral supraumbilical hernia with an
indistinct fascial edge , partially reduced but possibly with a
second aspect just above the umbilical hernia , a 5-6 cm mass which
was non-reducible , faint bowel sounds with diffuse tenderness.
RECTAL: She was noted to be guaiac negative on rectal examination
and non-tender. EXTREMITIES: Examination was warm and atraumatic.
Of note , she had 2+ palpable dorsalis pedis pulses and her
posterior tibial pulses were not palpable. Her left calf was
tender which the patient reported to be chronic and her entire calf
was firm with no cords palpable. NEUROLOGICAL: Examination was
non-focal.
LABORATORY EXAMINATION: Her EKG showed a normal sinus rhythm , left
atrial enlargement , question of poor R
wave progression , no ST or T wave changes , and her chest X-Ray was
clear with no active disease. Her KUB showed the nasogastric tube
in place with few air filled loops of small bowel and there was air
and stool in the large bowel. Her laboratories on admission were
notable for an SMA 7 showing a sodium of 141 , potassium of 3.9 ,
chloride 95 , carbon dioxide 32 , BUN 9 , creatinine 0.8 , glucose of
222 , amylase of 33 , her lipase was 10 , white blood cell count was
7.8 , her hematocrit was 53.4 , and platelets were 198.
HOSPITAL COURSE: A nasogastric tube was placed and drained 500 cc
of aspirate after 500 cc of emesis. She was
admitted with a diagnosis of small bowel obstruction with three
supraumbilical reducible hernias and one periumbilical incarcerated
hernia. The plan was to take her to the Operating Room for ventral
hernia repair. On 3/22 , she was taken to the Operating Room and
had a ventral hernia repair. That operation was notable to be a
reducible umbilical hernia which was noted to be incarcerated
without any evidence of strangulation. The hernia was repaired
with Marlex and mesh. Please see the Operative Note for details.
The patient remained intubated after the operation and was taken to
the Recovery Room intubated. After a slow wean from the
ventilator , the patient was extubated later in the day on July and required four liters of oxygen by nasal prongs to maintain
O2 saturations between 90 and 94%. She also underwent a rule out
myocardial infarction protocol post-operatively and did rule out.
Of note , the right calf had a palpable cord , lower extremity
non-invasives were scheduled , and the Cardiology Deep Venous
Thrombosis Service was consulted. They felt that her left lower
extremity deep venous thrombosis was chronic deep venous thrombosis
and venous insufficiency. They recommended Ted stockings and
subcutaneous Heparin. She was additionally seen by the Pulmonary
Service who suggested getting pulmonary function tests once the
patient was clinically stable and agreed to using Ted thigh-high
stockings. The Deep Venous Thrombosis Service recommended
thigh-high stockings with the pressure of 30 to 40 mm of mercury
during the day with Ted stockings regularly at night with the
continuation of subcutaneous Heparin until fully mobile. On
post-operative day three , the patient's nasogastric tube was
discontinued and her diet was advanced. Her Jackson-Pratt drain
was removed. On post-operative day four , the patient had regained
bowel sounds as well as had a bowel movement. Her oxygen
saturation was 94% on four liters and when the oxygen was removed ,
she had a room air saturation between 86 and 88%. She had an
echocardiogram to rule out evidence of pulmonary hypertension in
the setting of sleep apnea felt the most likely diagnosis in this
pickwickian appearing patient. Her echo was without evidence of
pulmonary hypertension. Her pulmonary function tests showed
decreased volume , decreased diffusing capacity , and decreased MIP.
The Respiratory Service recommended home oxygen therapy to maintain
saturations at 90% at rest and with ambulation. A trial of oxygen
at rest and with ambulation was done in the hospital to calculate
the dose of oxygen needed for home therapy. Pulmonary as well
recommended state study as an out-patient and pulmonary follow-up.
On post-operative day five , the patient was noted to have erythema
around her incision , probably a reaction to the tape , however , she ,
as well , had a low grade temperature to 100.1. Given that she had
had a mesh placed , she was started on antibiotic prophylaxis for
possible cellulitis. She was started on Cephradine 500 q.i.d. for
seven days. As well , further discussion was had with the
Respiratory Consultation Service. They felt that patient's problem
was chronic with hypoxemia leading to an elevated hematocrit and
that she would require home oxygen. The Deep Venous Thrombosis
Cardiology Service recommended repeating her lower extremity
non-invasives prior to discharge , continuing her on her 30 to 40 mm
of mercury stockings during the day , and Teds at night. She had a
follow-up lower extremity non-invasive on the day of discharge
which showed a chronic left lower extremity deep venous thrombosis
with venous insufficiency and no evidence of new deep venous
thrombosis. They recommended follow-up lower extremity
non-invasives after discharge as an out-patient. The patient was
discharged in good condition on November , 1994. She is
discharged on home oxygen at two liters by nasal prongs. With
this , she was able to maintain her O2 saturations greater than 90%.
On the date of discharge , her saturations were in the 94
percentile. She was to be monitored by Stuartmer Medical Center at home.
DISPOSITION: DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Tylox one to two tablets
q.3-4h. p.r.n. for pain , Colace , Dulcolax p.r.n. , and
Cephradine 500 q.i.d. for six days further. She has scheduled
follow-up in the Surgical Clinic March , ten days after
discharge , for follow-up of her chronic venous insufficiency in
EL HOSPITAL and the Pulmonary Clinic with Dr. Limas on January to
further evaluate her sleep apnea oxygen requirements.
Dictated By: THWAITES , M.D.
Attending: SCOTTIE N. BARAHONA , M.D. LS44  SD198/3469
Batch: 6835 Index No. VEWIT340IJ D: 3/26/95
T: 8/25/95
CC: 1. DR. HUPRICH
2. DR. CUNA
[report_end]
