RECORD #402659


413410800 | BAH | 16873801 | | 6875656 | 5/12/2005 12:00:00 AM | RIGHT FOOT GANGRENE | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 5/2/2005 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 9/12/2005
ATTENDING: KEGLER , OLEN ESTEBAN MD
DATE OF DISCHARGE:
Unknown.
CHIEF COMPLAINT:
Gangrenous fourth right toe with necrotic right great toe ulcer
and right forefoot cellulitis.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:
Mr. Maixner is a 57-year-old male with a history of a poor medical
follow up smoking and untreated diabetes mellitus who first noted
blisters on the tip of his right fourth toe and under medial
right great toe from ill-fitting tissues approximately a year
prior to his admission. Both ulcers have been nonhealing and
cyclically formed dark eschars and superficial scabs which have
been treated with lotion as recommended by his podiatrist. Five
to six months ago , he traveled to Oonperfin Rd and spend some time in
hot tubs and Jacuzzi's but his ulcers continued to form eschars
without healing completely and also episodically became
erythematous and painful with involvement of the forefoot. Each
episode usually resolved with foot elevation and rest. On
9/16/05 , after long walks , he noticed that the right fourth toe
turned to a dark purple color , was malodorous. He had pain with
weightbearing and was obliged to heel walk. Over the next
several days , the forefoot became erythematosus and swollen as
well. He denied any fevers , chills , nausea , vomiting , cough ,
headache , although he had an episode of malaise and chills that
lasted three days several weeks prior to his admission. His
appetite had been stable. He had not had any recent weight
change. Functionally , he was doing well. Ambulation was limited
only by foot pain. He denied claudication , chest pressure ,
dyspnea on exertion. He would sleep on one pillow at night with
head flat. He denied lightheadedness or any presyncopal
episodes. On 7/7/05 , he presented to H Medical Center for
workup of his painful forefoot and toe ulcers. He was afebrile
with vital signs stable. His right fourth toe was described as
blackened with clear demarcation at the metatarsal junction , and
eschar was noted on the right first toe. He is white blood cell
count at that stage was 12.7. Plain films were notable for
suspicious swelling about the fourth toe with evidence of gas
noted within the soft tissues of the medial aspect of the fourth
toe in the proximal interphalangeal joint. He went on to have
ABIs that were 0.32 on the right side and 0.43 on the left side
and PVRs were normal at 5 level only. He also underwent a
cardiac workup that was notable for SPECT/MIBI that showed a
reversible defect involving the basal , mid and apical segments of
the anterior wall consistent with myocardial ischemia. An echo
showed an ejection fraction of 45% and possible septal
hypokinesis. Given the positive stress test and a positive need
for cardiac cath , he was transferred to T.bafnashstin Hospital for further management. He did not feel that would have
change in appearance since 10/21 although the pain had increasing
intensity. He denied any sensory or motor deficits , but he had
pain whenever he moved his toes or put any weight.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
Rheumatoid arthritis since 1980s that was untreated , type II
diabetes mellitus since 1990s that was untreated , multiple bony
injuries to his right foot , and a football accident as a
teenager.
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:
Bilateral mastoidectomies in 1970s and 1980s , status post penile
surgery at childhood , status post sebaceous cyst removal in 2004.
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
None.
ALLERGIES:
NKDA.
SOCIAL HISTORY:
One to three packs per day for 40 years , quit in 1980 , alcoholic
until 1993 but had been sober attending AA since then. Prior
heroin , speed and barbiturate abuse , with history of cocaine ,
tranquilizers , marijuana use; has been clean since 1993. He used
to work for a moving company , no disability and lives alone in
Tall All He is single and has no children.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:
On admission , temperature 99.6 , heart rate 72 , blood pressure
150/86 , respiratory rate 16 , oxygen saturation 99% on room air.
General appearance: Elderly looking gentleman in no apparent
distress with bilateral hearing aids. HEENT: No JVP , no carotid
bruits. Cardiac: Regular rate and rhythm. Lungs: Clear to
auscultation bilaterally. Birthmark on right upper back.
Abdomen: Mildly distended , soft , nontender , no pulsatile masses.
Bilateral lower extremity skin hallus with normal color and
temperature down to feet. Right forefoot was erythematous and
edematous and warm with no fluctuance or crepitus. His plantar
surface was tender to palpation immediately beneath the fourth
metatarsal. His right fourth toe was necrotic and malodorous
with no purulent discharge. His anteromedial aspect of his right
great toe had a 0.5 cm round ulcer with dark eschar center and
desiccated edges with mild erythema and induration around it.
Dorsiflexion was 5/5 and plantar flexion 4-/5 and limited by
pain. He had full strength on the left side , normal sensation
throughout both feet. Pulses: Right carotid 2+ femoral
dopplerable , DP dopplerable , PT dopplerable. Left carotid 2+
femoral , 1+ DP , none PT dopplerable. Bedside ABIs: Right side
0.43 , left side 0.51. He was admitted with diagnosis of a
multilevel arterial insufficiency bilaterally and need for fourth
toe amputation impossible for debridement followed by angio for
possible revascularization.
PROCEDURES AND OPERATIONS:
3/14/05: Attending surgeon , Leif Pinke , M.D. Open
amputation of right fourth toe.
8/6/05: Attending surgeon , Yong Weinrich , M.D. Coronary
artery bypass grafting x4 with saphenous vein graft to acute
marginal distal PDA , left internal mammary artery to the LAD , Y
left radial artery from LIMA to the ramus intermedius to the
posterior left ventricular branch of the circumflex.
3/14/05: Left to right femoral to femoral artery bypass using
an 8 mm Dacron graft.
1/4/05: Attending surgeon , Tyree Denten , M.D. Right
femoropopliteal bypass grafting and amputation of the right third
and fifth toe.
HOSPITAL COURSE:
Mr. Bessard underwent amputation of his fourth toe on the right
side after his admission. He tolerated his procedure well. A
few days later , he underwent the previously mentioned coronary
artery bypass grafting; please refer to the previously dictated
summary , dictation ID 6082759 for details. After his coronary
bypass grafting , he underwent a femoral-femoral bypass grafting
with debridement of his right toe amputations site. After his
procedure , he had a weak dorsal pedis , a questionable posterior
tibial and normal popliteal signal on Doppler but none of his
pulses were palpable. His femoral-femoral graft was easily
palpable on his abdomen. Due to his poor vascularization of his
right lower extremity , he underwent a femoropopliteal bypass
grafting on the right with a nonreversed saphenous vein grafting
from the ipsilateral leg and amputation of his right and fifth
toe and closure of his lateral foot. He tolerated this procedure
well. The rest of his hospital course was complicated by a
worsening of the left lower extremity perfusion. His left foot
was slightly cooler than his right and his Doppler signals
fainted. An initial mottle appearance of his left lower
extremity improved with time. On 2/29 , his wounds were dry ,
clean and intact. He had a palpable femoral-femoral graft and
dopplerable left PT and DP pulses with monophasic signal. Both
his PT and DP on the right are dopplerable as well with biphasic
signal. The same day , his Foley catheter was removed and he
started mobilizing with heel weightbearing on the right and with
help of physical therapy and the nursing personnel he is
currently actively screened for rehabilitation.
His discharge would be complete. Will await this??_____??.
eScription document: 4-3236252 EMSFocus transcriptionists
Dictated By: BOSH , RICKEY
Attending: FEATHER , BEAU FLOYD
Dictation ID 4873189
D: 6/4/05
T: 6/4/05
[report_end]
