RECORD #403481


079025012 | PH | 73514712 | | 2364381 | 9/13/2004 12:00:00 AM | OSTEOMYELITIS | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 6/1/2004 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 3/4/2004
ATTENDING: CORTEZ DERICK SADLIER MD
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient was admitted on 4/12/04
for a right plantar surface neurotrophic ulcer secondary to
diabetes mellitus. The patient has a long-standing history of
peripheral neuropathy and slight history of peripheral vascular
disease. This has been treated thus far by podiatric
debridements until the day of admission when the patient
presented low-grade fevers and chills. The patient also has a
history of diabetes mellitus , hypertension , distant past of
pancreatitis , gout , neuropathy , high cholesterol , and chronic
renal insufficiency. He has had a left fourth and fifth toe
amputation before. He has also undergone recent eye surgery of
unknown origin and had some unknown pancreatic surgery in 1968
most likely for phlegmon or some sort of pancreatic condition.
The patient was admitted on 4/12/04 with a right plantar surface
neurotrophic ulcer as well as recent history of low-grade fevers
and chills.
The patient notes that the ulcer came about after some unknown
trauma to the foot. He had been followed by podiatrist and had
outpatient MRI revealing osteo at the fifth metatarsal head and
the fourth metatarsal shaft , presented to the Egan Healthcare
emergency department after having a fever of 101.3 degrees. On
admission , the patient had a low-grade fever of 99.7 degrees ,
pulse in the 90s , respiratory rate 16 , and blood pressure 144/67.
He was saturating 95% on room air.
MEDICATIONS:
At the time of admission were as follows:
1. Lantus 100 mg q.p.m.
2. Humalog 20 units q.p.m.
3. Humalog sliding scale.
4. Neurontin 300 mg t.i.d.
5. Lisinopril 40 mg q.d.
6. Allopurinol 300 mg q.d.
7. Hydrochlorothiazide 25 mg q.d.
8. Zocor 20 mg q.d.
9. TriCor 50 mg b.i.d.
10. Atenolol 25 mg q.d.
11. Eyedrops prednisolone and atropine.
12. The patient was on iron supplementation.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Notable findings and/or that the patient
had clear breath sounds and regular rate and rhythm. On cardiac
examination had a slight murmur 2/6 along the left sternal border
and otherwise had a obese abdomen. The extremities and back
revealed no abnormalities except for a right foot ulcer along the
fourth and fifth metatarsal distal heads. The patient also had a
somewhat cyanotic appearing and somewhat edematous and swollen
fifth right toe. The patient had decreased sensation bilaterally
in the feet up to mid shin. The patient also had a known history
of drug allergies.
LABORATORY DATA:
At the time of admission , the patient's significant labs were as
follows , his potassium was 4.3 , BUN was 38 , creatinine was 3.2 ,
and his blood glucose was 187. His white blood cell count was
12.6 and hematocrit was 27.8.
HOSPITAL COURSE:
The patient was admitted to the vascular surgery service under
Dr. Tosco and was started on vancomycin , levofloxacin , and
Flagyl. He continued to have low-grade fevers over the course of
the next three days. Finally , on hospital day 3 , had a fever of
103.2. It was decided that at the time of admission , the patient
would need to undergo an amputation of the third and fourth toe
as well as metatarsal heads to remove the infected bone and
source of osteomyelitis. On hospital day 3 , the patient was
taken to the operating room. It should be noted at that time
that the patient's creatinine bumped before his operation from a
BUN of 39 and a creatinine of 2.1 to a BUN of 59 on hospital day
3 and a creatinine of 3.9. This occurred coincidentally the day
after the patient had several MRIs of is lower extremities to
better understand the vascular supply to his lower extremities.
Therefore , the patient had contrast dye. Although , this dye was
gadolinium , which is sued commonly for MRA and is not usually
associated with any soft of renal toxicities.
The patient was taken to the operating room on hospital day 3 for
a right fourth and fifth toe amputation and nonhealing ulcer
debridement. Please refer to the operative note by Dr.
Guemmer for further details. The patient tolerated the
procedure without any problems and the patient control was
adequate by postoperative day 1. However on postoperative lab
checkup , it was see that the patient's creatinine bumped to 4.9
with a BUN of 61. This was viewed and was monitored by serial
BUN and creatinine checks. The following , BUN and creatinine
came back at 69 for BUN and 5.2 for creatinine. On postoperative
day #1 , the patient's creatinine continued to rise and was found
to be 6.5 with a BUN of 81. At this point , the renal service was
consulted for further input as far as possible causes of acute
renal failure in the phase of chronic renal insufficiency and
postoperative period. The patient's vancomycin level came to be
in the therapeutic range of 30.8. FENa was checked which
revealed 0.74% FENa. This was rechecked and revealed a FENa of
0.97% both , which indicated prerenal failure. Renal team also
advised checking for other causes of the patient's anemia as well
as other causes of the renal failure. Labs have been sent and
some are currently pending regarding the C3-C4 and anti-GMB
antibodies.
The patient's creatinine continued to rise despite advanced
management including with IV resuscitation , fluid volume boluses ,
and occasional boluses of Lasix. Eventually , the patient's BUN
and creatinine rose to 94 and 8.3 by postoperative day 2. By the
following day , however postoperative day 3 , the patient's
creatinine and BUN began resolving that BUN of 95 and a
creatinine 7.8. However , at the same time , the patient began
having hypoglycemic episodes in response to the Lantus dose that
he was getting at home and continue to get here in hospital. It
was summarized by the renal team as well as by the surgical
service and that the patient may have not been taking his
medication at home and now was being his medications , while here
in the hospital. By postoperative day 4 , the patient continued
to have dysregulation of his fingerstick blood glucoses ranging
from a high of 367 to a low of 52 where she began to be
symptomatic , somewhat somnolent , and groggy.
This patient's blood glucose control was evaluated by the
diabetes management service and it was summarized by them that
the patient's renal insufficiency had a significant role in the
patient's hypoglycemic episodes and that he ended up having
insulin toxicity due to poor creatinine clearance and renal
functioning level. It should be noted that in light of this
patient's postoperative complications of acute renal failure in
the phase of chronic renal failure and chronic renal
insufficiency , the patient never required a hemodialysis because
the potassium levels remained stable. The high that the patient
reached was 5.6 of potassium on the same day that he had a
creatine of 8.3 , which was on postoperative day #2 , This was
treated with kayexalate and along the same lines , the patient's
medications were evaluated and it was decided to decrease it to
b.i.d. dosing and to start holding lisinopril , Neurontin , and
vancomycin for their possible renal toxic effects. A renal
ultrasound was obtained on postoperative day #1 as well as
Doppler flow studies. The renal ultrasound revealed normal
parenchyma with somewhat decreased renal indices indicating some
decreased amount of blood flow to their kidneys. At the same
time , an MRA of the renal arteries was obtained which revealed no
stenosis lesions of the kidneys.
The patient was eventually started on PhosLo and Ferrlecit as
well as Epogen 10 , 000 units q. week at the recommendation of the
renal service. This was continued during the duration of the
patient's stay and should continue in the postoperative
hospitalization. In light of this postoperative complications ,
the creatinine became stable by postoperative day 3 and blood
pressure medications were restarted at previous doses and were
titrated to the need that the patient demonstrated by his blood
pressure control. This was eventually attained on atenolol at
150 mg q.d. However , renal service recommended that the patient
be given Lopressor 100 mg b.i.d. This seems to have controlled
the patient's blood pressure for the time being. Physical
therapy was also involved in evaluating the patient and assisted
in the management of this patient's care.
It should also be noted that a wax sponge was placed on the
patient's right open wound. This was placed on postoperative day
#3 , 5/19/04 .  The patient seems to be tolerating this well. The
diabetes management service , the physical therapy , and the renal
teams continued to follow the patient closely during the duration
of his stay until it was felt that the patient's postoperative
complications and issues including blood glucose control as well
as renal insufficiency were under control. From an operative
standpoint , the patient tolerated the procedure well and it was
decided to continue the patient on levofloxacin for a one week
course and the patient is to be discharged to the rehab facility ,
which is the Still Freedral Hospital for their ability to
care for wax sponge excellently.
The patient was seen by Dr. Ulvan in the renal staff and by the
diabetes management service by Dr. Clint Holets , pager #050-61. The
physical examination at the time of discharge was unchanged from
the previous few days where the patient was seen to have adequate
Doppler signal in all his pedal pulses , DPs as well as PTs and a
faintly palpable right DP and as well as faintly palpable left
DP.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:
The patient is to be discharged on the following medications ,
Tylenol 650 to 1000 mg p.o. q.4h. p.r.n. for temperature greater
than 101 , allopurinol 100 mg p.o. q.d. , enteric-coated aspirin 81
mg p.o. q.d. , Lopressor 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , PhosLo 1334 mg p.o.
q.a.c. , please give with meals , Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Epogen
10 , 000 units delivered subcuticularly q. week starting on Monday ,
already given one dose intra hospital stay. Please give the next
dose on 0/0/04 or 07 , iron 325 mg p.o. t.i.d. , Percocet 1
to 2 tablets p.o. q.4h. p.r.n. pain , prednisolone 1% one drop in
the effected eye b.i.d. , Zocor 20 mg p.o. q.h.s. , Neurontin 300
mg p.o. b.i.d. , atropine 1 mg one drop in the affected eye ,
levofloxacin 250 mg p.o. every morning starting on the 0/0/04
and continuing for one week , Lispro 6 units subcuticularly
q.a.c. , hold if the patient is not eating much or if the patient
does not have a meal sitting right in front of him at the time of
dosage and also Lispro sliding scale as per the discharge paper
work in which the patient receives two units if the blood glucose
is between 125 to 150 and onwards from there 3 units for 150 to
200 , and so forth. Please also give the patient half his sliding
scale dose at the bedtime if his blood glucose is greater than
200 and recheck his blood glucose 1 to 2 hours later , TriCor 54
mg p.o. q.d. , Lantus 25 units subcutaneous q.d. , and DuoNeb 3/0.5
mg nebulizer q.6h. p.r.n. wheezing.
The patient is to be followed up at the rehab facility at Ing Mansy General Hospital .  Please also note , the patient should follow up with the
renal service as per the discharge report in two to three weeks
as well as Dr. Knaub as per the paper work in one to two
weeks. The wax sponge should be change every three days and
please follow up with Dr. Zaxas regarding the longevity of
the wax sponge.
He should follow up with Dr. Amos as well as the attending
in the renal service Dr. Riech . The clinic number for the renal
service is 9057822.
eScription document: 9-6956226 EMSSten Tel
Dictated By: WUERZ , SANDY
Attending: COWAN , WILBUR MIQUEL
Dictation ID 6436301
D: 2/12/04
T: 2/12/04
[report_end]
