RECORD #408901


669868626 | MHAMC | 04560532 | | 6076865 | 8/26/2004 12:00:00 AM | SYNCOPE | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 10/26/2004 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 3/17/2004
ATTENDING: QUENTIN BUCKHOLZ M.D.
MEDICAL SERVICE:
General Medicine.
DISPOSITION:
Home with services.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:
1. Amiodarone 200 mg p.o. q.d.
2. Enteric-coated aspirin 81 mg p.o. q.d.
3. Captopril 12.5 mg p.o. t.i.d.
4. Fluoxetine 20 mg p.o. q.d.
5. Nitroglycerine 0.4 mg sublingual tablet every 5 minutes x 3
p.r.n. chest pain.
6. Nephrocaps one tablet p.o. q.d.
7. Clopidogrel 75 mg p.o. q.d.
8. Sevelamer 800 mg p.o. t.i.d. with meals.
9. Pepcid 20 mg p.o. q.h.s.
10. Vancomycin at hemodialysis to complete 14-day course as
discussed with dialysis , etc.
DIET:
Low cholesterol low saturated fat ADA 2100 calories per day diet.
ALLERGIES:
No known drug allergies.
ADMISSION DIAGNOSES:
Syncope and chest pain.
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS:
Angina.
OTHER DIAGNOSES:
End-stage renal disease , coronary artery disease , status post
CABG , VT , status post ICD placement , peripheral vascular disease ,
history of CVA with residual right-sided weakness , diabetes ,
hypercholesterolemia , low back pain , and peripheral neuropathy.
TREATMENTS AND PROCEDURES:
Pacemaker/ICD interrogated hemodialysis.
BRIEF RESUME OF HOSPITAL COURSE:
The patient is a 68-year-old gentleman with history of severe and
operable coronary artery disease , status post CABG , history of
ventricular tachycardia , status post ICD placement who is on
amiodarone , end stage renal disease on hemodialysis , status post
CVA , who presents with chest pain and a report of a syncopal
episode. He is followed at SRHO and has multiple multiple
admissions for chest pain and rule out MI in the setting of
receiving or having just received hemodialysis. On the day prior
to admission , 9/24/04 , the patient had chest pain and
hemodialysis and was admitted to PACMH where he was ruled out for
MI by enzymes. He was discharged from BAHM on 1/2/04 and later
that day , per the patient , he had a fight with his family members
and stood up and abruptly felt lightheaded and "passed out." He
reports no palpitations or chest pain prior to the event and
believes that he may have been unconscious for 20 minutes.
Talking to the family , the patient was actually attempting to
throw something at this son , fell , and had no loss of
consciousness after falling. The patient reports that he woke on
the floor and developed severe chest pain with radiation to the
left arm and jaw , which is typical with his anginal symptoms
according to his cardiologist. He denies any recent change in
chronic shortness of breath or exercise capacity , orthopnea , or
increased edema. He had a recent MIBI on 9/13 that showed
mild mid anterior and inferior wall ischemia with a
posterior-basal scar. He was deemed an obvious surgical
candidate and has been medically managed.
In the emergency department , he received IV fluids , aspirin ,
sublingual nitroglycerin x 3 and morphine with resolution of
chest pain. Upon admission to the medical team , his vital signs
were stable and he denied chest pain. He was admitted to rule
out myocardial infarction.
HOSPITAL COURSE BY ISSUES:
1. Cardiovascular ischemia: This patient with a known history
of CAD who has been medically managed per his primary
cardiologist. He has a history of CABG. His last cath was in
10/21 that showed diffuse disease. At which time , he received
stents to the left main and LAD. On this admission , the patient
ruled out for MI with three sets of negative cardiac enzymes
including troponin. No EKG changes were noted. He was continued
on aspirin products and beta-blocker as well as ACE inhibitor ,
and amiodarone. The patient is not on a statin though he has
been in the past; he reports that he had some sort of a reaction
to the medication. On the day after his admission , he had chest
pain and hemodialysis but was relieved by sublingual
nitroglycerin. Over his hospital course , he continued to have
2-3 episodes of chest pain per day that were relieved by
nitroglycerine and morphine. He had no EKG changes in the
setting of any of these episodes. Isordil was added for improved
pain control briefly. Cardiology was consulted and felt that the
frequency of the pain , the rapid onset and offset , and the
reproducibility of the pain to palpation made angina less likely;
they did not feel that catheterization or further workup was
indicated.
2. Cardiovascular pump function: Initially , the patient was dry
on exam , and demonstrated no signs or symptoms of heart failure.
He was actually orthostatic by symptoms but his blood pressure
remained stable. His story of losing consciousness was difficult
to corroborate; if he did indeed lose consciousness , his history
is consistent with orthostasis. Management was monitored by the
Hemodialysis Service.
3. Cardiovascular rhythm: The patient has an ICD for history of
VT , and he is continued on amiodarone. There was concern that
possible arrhythmia or pacer malfunction could have been the
cause of his symptoms. In addition , when he fell he said he
might have fallen on his pacemaker site. On the morning after
his admission , when he was on hemodialysis , the patient and nurse
both heard a belching sound that seemed to be coming from the
area of the patient's pacemaker. The electrophysiology team was
consulted and pacemaker was interrogated and found to be
functioning well , with no history of arrhythmia or alarm. EKGs
remained unchanged from baseline , except there was a prolongation
of QTC with the initiation of Zyprexa , which was stopped. The
patient's heart rate remained stable in the 50s-60s on his
cardiac regimen.
4. Renal: The patient has end stage renal disease on
hemodialysis and was apparently incompletely dialyzed on the day
prior to admission. Due to chest pain , it was initially
difficult to have the patient complete a course of hemodialysis
but over his hospital stay he was dialyzed effectively. He has
arrangements to follow up with his outpatient hemodialysis after
discharge
5. Psychiatry: After ruling out for myocardial infarction ,
plans were being made to discharge the patient home and the
patient's family was called. They reported concern that did not
want the patient to return home because of abusive and erratic
behavior by the patient. They reported that actually in the
setting of the patient's fall , the police were called and when
they arrived the patient complained of chest pain and was brought
to the hospital by ambulance. There was a history of restraining
or taking out by the wife against the patient , and she reported
feeling unsafe with him from the home. Psychiatry did see the
patient and felt that he was unreliable and was probably not safe
to go home to take care of himself , but that he was also
confident to make decisions and was not acutely psychotic , and
therefore , it should not be committed against his will. The
patient denied any suicidal or homicidal ideation. The patient
was started on SSRI and initially on Zyprexa though this was
stopped because of prolonged QTC. After a few days , the patient'
family changed their mind and decided that they would be okay
with him coming home. The situation was discussed with the
patient's primary doctor , with the family over the phone , as they
would not come in for a family meeting with the patient and he
did go home , but will likely require a psych follow up as an
outpatient.
6. Endocrine: The patient continued on insulin and Regular
Insulin sliding scale for his history of diabetes.
7. Infectious disease: The patient developed a low blood
pressure and was noted to have erythema and pus from the site of
his hemodialysis catheter in the right subclavian position. He
became fully hypertensive and required a brief course of pressors
to maintain blood pressure. The catheter was removed and
cultures were obtained that demonstrated methicillin-resistant
Staph aureus. The patient was treated with vancomycin and
gentamicin dose to his renal function and showed improvement in
his symptoms in clearance of his bacteremia. The gentamicin was
stopped and plans were made for the patient to receive vancomycin
as an outpatient and hemodialysis in follow up. He was dialyzed
from VAF fistula in his arm that had been created a number of
months prior to this admission.
8. Nutrition: The patient was seen by nutrition and was given a
renal carbohydrate controlled low fat low cholesterol diet. He
was continued on Nephrocaps. B12 and folate were normal.
eScription document: 8-6204800 EMSSten Tel
Dictated By: SVOBODNY , TERRY
Attending: MCDANIAL , RICKIE
Dictation ID 4187085
D: 9/10/04
T: 9/10/04
[report_end]
