RECORD #410131


325114627 | DNH | 43861883 | | 6006325 | 0/14/2006 12:00:00 AM | PNEUMONIA | Unsigned | DIS | Admission Date: 7/16/2006 Report Status: Unsigned

Discharge Date: 7/2/2006
ATTENDING: BALIS , NORBERTO M.D.
SERVICE: FHCC . 
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
Pneumonia and UTI.
ASSOCIATED DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES:
1. History of right MCA embolic stroke on 10/22 status post
right ICA on 0/23/06 . 
2. History of temporal lobe epilepsy.
3. ADD.
4. Stage III non-small-cell lung cancer status post XRT and
chemo.
5. Hypertension.
6. Asthma.
7. Graves' disease.
8. Depression.
9. History of subclavian steal syndrome.
10. History of urinary tract infection.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:
This is a 63-year-old right-handed lady with history of stage III
non-small-cell lung cancer status post XRT and chemotherapy ,
history of right MCA stroke status post right CEA on 0/23/06 for
70% stenosis of the right ICA , question history of right temporal
lobe epilepsy , who was readmitted to the medicine service from
her nursing home for question of altered mental status , fever ,
and cough. The patient was recently admitted from 9/12/06 to
0/16/06 for change in mental status , treated for presumed UTI
but grew with yeast but no bacteria. The patient was consulted
by neurology for increased somnolence. She had a head CT at that
time that shows encephalomalacia in right MCA distribution
consistent with old stroke with no acute intracranial
hemorrhages , midline shifts , or mass effect. No definite
metastatic lesions were observed. Per patient's oncologist , her
response to treatment has been excellent. She has a negative
EEG. MRI/MRA always shows the right MCA infarct. Normal B12 ,
folate , TSH , and RPR. Neurology at that time agreed that no
further evaluation of somnolence is necessary at this time and
leptomeningeal disease is unlikely given her lack of neurological
finding. The patient was then transferred to rehab on 0/16/06 . 
Per nursing and discussion with house staff , the patient has had
waxing and waning mental status and at times appearing alert and
appropriate and other times somewhat hallucinating and agitated.
She also had periods of cough and fever and pain on urination.
According to the son , she has had a cough for the last 10 days
prior to admission. She has not been eating adequately with food
sticking out from her mouth and not quite responsive. She had a
chest x-ray done on 9/28/06 that shows a right hilar mass and
right upper lobe infiltrate. She was started on moxifloxacin 400
mg p.o. daily on 9/28/06 and then she was transferred here at
Kendertawn Community Hospital at the son's request for change in mental
status , cough , and fever and presumed pneumonia.
In the ED , her temperature was 98.8 , pulse 122 , blood pressure
160/68 , breathing at 20. She got vancomycin , levofloxacin , and 4
L of fluids. Chest x-ray was consistent with right upper lobe
pneumonia , question of postobstructive pneumonia. Her UA was
quite dirty with oxalate crystal , yeast , and 100+ white blood
cells. She was started on vancomycin and levofloxacin for
presumed pneumonia and UTI. Her head CT was negative for any
acute change but also shows chronic right MCA infarct. The
patient was transferred to the floor for further management.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1. Right MCA embolic CVA 10/22 status post right ICA on
0/23/06 . 
2. History of temporal lobe epilepsy followed by Amado Routzen at
CIH . 
3. ADD.
4. Stage III non-small-cell lung cancer status post XRT and
chemo.
5. Hypertension.
6. Asthma.
7. Graves' disease.
8. Depression.
9. History of subclavian steal syndrome.
10. History of urinary tract infection.
PAST SURGICAL HISTORY:
1. She had bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy 30 years ago.
2. History of radioactive iodine for Graves' disease 30 years
ago.
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION:
1. Cymbalta 20 mg b.i.d.
2. Lamictal 20 mg b.i.d.
3. Zydis 5 mg b.i.d. p.r.n.
4. Seroquel 100 mg b.i.d. p.r.n.
5. Niferex 150 mg b.i.d. p.o.
6. Lovenox 40 mg subq daily.
7. Vitamin B12.
8. Toprol XL 100 mg daily.
9. Zocor 20 mg daily.
10. Prilosec 20 mg p.o. daily.
11. Lactulose 30 mg p.o. q.i.d. p.r.n. constipation.
12. Synthroid 125 mcg p.o. daily.
13. Ritalin 2.5 mg p.o. b.i.d.
14. Compazine 10 mg p.o. b.i.d.
15. Lidoderm patch 5% topical.
16. Dilaudid 2 mg p.o. q.p.m.
17. NovoLog sliding scale.
18. APAP 500 mg two tabs b.i.d.
ALLERGIES:
To IV contrast , penicillin for which she has a hive reaction ,
valproic acid and sulfa drugs. Demerol causes hypertension.
SOCIAL HISTORY:
She is divorced , with two children. No alcohol use recently.
100-pack-year history of smoking but quit , occasionally still
asks for cigarettes. The patient feels that she feels better on
nicotine patch.
FAMILY HISTORY:
Father died of MI at 73 , mother died in her 80s of emphysema.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:
Vital signs: Temperature 98.8 , pulse 122 , blood pressure 116/68 ,
respiratory rate 20 , O2 saturation 90% on 2 L. She was a
chronically ill-appearing , minimally verbal , responding to
commands. HEENT: PERRL , EOMI , dry mucus membrane , poor
dentition , and no oral lesions. Neck: Supple , no LAD , with
healing incisions on the right. Chest: Rhonchorous crackles
right greater than left. Decreased breath sounds in her right
upper lobe with occasional wheezes. Cardiac: Tachy , regular
rate , normal S1 and S2 , no murmur , rub , or gallop. Abdomen:
Soft , nontender , nondistended , mild tenderness on palpation on
the right quadrant. Extremities: No cyanosis , clubbing , or
edema , 2+ DP pulses , contraction from upper extremity from stroke
bilaterally , worse on the left. Left hand in a brace. Skin: No
rashes , petechiae. Neuro: Oriented x2 , waxing and waning
mental status: Left-sided weakness , 0/5 strength upper
extremity , 1/5 strength lower extremity , 2+ reflexes throughout.
LABORATORY DATA:
Her labs are basically unremarkable. Lytes; her white count is
14.2 , hematocrit 37.6. She does have 2% polyps , 6% bands. LFTs
remarkable only for elevated alkaline phosphatase of 126.
Albumin is 3.4. Her cardiac enzymes are less than assay. Chest
x-ray shows overall unchanged ill-defined right hilar mass and
prior new faint parenchymal opacity in the right upper lobe
concerning to early pneumonia that can be postobstructive. EKG
is tachy , normal sinus rhythm , no ST-T wave changes. Head CT , no
acute change , chronic right MCA infarct. Echo , trace MR , EF
55-60% , known LV function with diastolic dysfunction.
ASSESSMENT AND PLAN:
This is a 64-year-old right-handed woman with history of stage
III non-small-cell lung cancer status post XRT and chemotherapy ,
history of right ICA stroke status post right RCA 0/23/06 ,
recent hospitalization for change in mental status and UTI who
was admitted from nursing home for altered mental status , fever ,
and cough and dysuria. Found to have pyuria with calcium oxalate
crystal , new right upper lobe opacity concerning for
postobstructive pneumonia. Her head CT was unchanged. The
patient was admitted for presumed pneumonia and UTI.
ID: The patient has elevated white blood cell count bandemia in
the setting of right upper lobe opacity concerning for
postobstructive pneumonia and also with pyuria with yeast. The
patient received vancomycin and levofloxacin in the ED. She was
briefly put on vancomycin and levofloxacin and added Flagyl for
aspiration pneumonia. She subsequently also switched over to
vancomycin , Ceptaz , and Flagyl to cover for pseudomonas. Her
urine culture grew out yeast and her blood culture was negative
to date. Her antibiotic regimen was changed back to
levofloxacin , Flagyl on p.o. regimen. On postoperative day #4 ,
she was improving. She did have one brief episode of
hypertension on hospital day #2 that responded to IV fluids. She
has required no escalation in antibiotics and tolerated
levofloxacin and Flagyl quite well. She will continue her
levofloxacin and Flagyl for an additional 14 days. She also got
a chest CT that shows right upper lobe pneumonia and also
question of consolidation in right lung with underlying
emphysema. The consolidation is contiguous with the right hilum
and underlying hilar adenopathy or hilar mass cannot be excluded.
She also has small right pleural effusion. The findings were
discussed with Dr. Szufat who is her oncologist and he felt that
she is likely having post XRT changes and no further workup is
necessary for now. She will continue to finish her course of
antibiotics of p.o. levofloxacin and Flagyl for 14 days.
Urology: Her UTI shows yeast. Given that the fact that she has
multiple episodes of yeast UTI currently , she was treated with
fluconazole for three days.
Neuro: She has changes in mental status waxing and waning ,
however , the patient's mental status has greatly improved
throughout her hospital stay although with occasional episode of
hallucinations. For example she was thinking that the resident
is her niece. Psych , onch , and geriatrics was asked to see the
patient at the son's request. Both psy onc and geriatrics
believed that her change in mental status is multifactorial , and
is likely a result of delirium rather than dementia. They
recommended avoiding pain meds and oversedating meds and started
her on zyprexa 5mg bid , 2.5mg bid prn agitation , and can increase
to 10mg po qhs if necessary for agitation. She was continued on
her Lamictal and Cymbalta and has no further neurological
decompensation. Her Seroquel was decreased to 50 mg b.i.d.
p.r.n. and Zydis 5 mg p.o. p.r.n. , however , she was not receiving
these medications as she was not agitated. She had one dose of
seroquel on 0/27 early am and got really over sedated. Seroquel
was d/c and patient should not be receiving seroquel in the
future for risk of oversedation. Her vitals were stable
throughout.
CV: History of controlled prolonged QTC on Haldol. Her Haldol
was DC'd last admission , is now on Zyprexa and Seroquel. Her
EKGs were stable throughout her hospital stays.
Heme/Onch: The patient has history of stage III non-small-cell
lung cancer status post XRT and chemotherapy and is followed by
her outpatient oncologist , Dr. Miquel Grothe , at the Nawin Tayjeune Antri- Community Hospital as well as the outpatient psycho/onch social
worker whose name is Dr. Hugh Dress . The patient was seen by
psych/onch and geriatric. Dr. Kiel stated that she does not
have any further chemotherapy treatment planned for the future.
He will evaluate her when he sees her again in clinic. She is
not currently at the best medical condition to receive any
further therapy.
Endocrine: She was given NovoLog sliding scale for diabetes and
levothyroxine for history of Graves' and history of radioiodine
ablation.
FEN: the patient was seen by speech and swallow for question of
dysphagia and difficulty with swallowing and eating. The
patient's video flow examination shows prolonged oral phase , but
she did well on the rest of her video swallow examination so she
was put on a mince ground diet and thin liquids. Alternate
liquids and solids with tongue sweep to remove oral cavity
residue. The patient recommended to sit upright to take small
bites and sips. She should be seen by speech and swallow for
follow up swallow treatments two to three times per week. She
also was given nutrition consult who started the calorie counts.
Nutrition recommended that she may be need long-term nutritional
therapy if she does not meet her nutritional goal. That will be
deferred to her outpatient doctors at a later time. She will
need assists and encouragement with feeding. She was also given
Nexium for prophylaxis and replete her lytes with an American
Diabetic Diet with low salt. She was given Lovenox and PPI for
prophylaxis.
CODE: Full code.
The patient is discharged to rehab in stable condition.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:
1. Tylenol 650 mg p.o. q.4h. p.r.n. headache.
2. Albuterol inhaler two puffs inhaler q.6h. p.r.n. shortness of
breath or wheezing.
3. Aspirin 81 mg p.o. daily.
4. Dulcolax 5-10 mg p.o. daily p.r.n. constipation.
5. Vitamin B12 50 mcg p.o. daily.
6. Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.
7. Dilaudid 1-2 mg p.o. q.12h. p.r.n. pain.
8. Ibuprofen 600 mg p.o. q.6h. p.r.n. pain and temperature.
9. Lactulose 30 mL p.o. q.i.d. p.r.n. constipation.
10. Synthroid 125 mcg p.o. daily.
11. Ritalin 2.5 mg p.o. b.i.d.
12. Toprol XL 100 mg p.o. daily.
13. Flagyl 500 mg p.o. t.i.d. x14 days.
14. Niferex 150 mg p.o. b.i.d.
15. Senna two tabs p.o. b.i.d.
16. Zocor 20 mg p.o. q.h.s.
17. Neurontin 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.
18. Compazine 5-10 mg p.o. q.6h. p.r.n. nausea.
19. Lovenox 20 mg subq daily.
20. Lamictal 200 mg p.o. b.i.d.
21. Levofloxacin 500 mg p.o. daily x14 days.
22. Seroquel 50 mg p.o. b.i.d. p.r.n. insomnia and anxiety.
23. Nexium 20 mg p.o. daily.
24. Combivent neb q.6h. p.r.n. shortness of breath.
25. Zydis 5 mg p.o. b.i.d. p.r.n. anxiety.
26. Lidoderm 5% patch topical daily.
27. NovoLog sliding scale q.a.c. and q.h.s.
28. Cymbalta 20 mg p.o. b.i.d.
DISPOSITION:
The patient is to be discharged to rehab. She will follow up
with her PCP and Dr. Ratley .
eScription document: 8-2527738 EMSSten Tel
CC: Lesley Scoh M.D.
Dictated By: LICALZI , ELTON
Attending: ESTIS , FAUSTINO
Dictation ID 6983684
D: 8/2/06
T: 8/2/06
[report_end]
