RECORD #410758


185449655 | FH | 41698736 | | 976802 | 4/20/1993 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Unsigned | DIS | Admission Date: 4/20/1993 Report Status: Unsigned

Discharge Date: 9/17/1993
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSES: RECURRENT ENDOCARDITIS AND END-STAGE CARDIAC
VALVULAR DISEASE.
PROCEDURES PERFORMED: Mitral valve replacement on 8 of February and
cardiac transplantation on 16 of July . 
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The history of present illness is that
of a 55-year-old female with a history
of rheumatic heart disease and endocarditis , who presented to the
Side Lygreen Medical Center on 28 of August to the Cardiology Service with progressive
weight gain , lower extremity edema and shortness of breath. The
patient had a history of rheumatic fever as a child , and she
presented in 1985 with mitral and aortic valvular endocarditis
following a root canal. She subsequently underwent aortic and
mitral valve replacement secondary to her aortic and mitral
insufficiency. Her perioperative course was complicated by a brain
abscess which was without neurologic residual deficit. In 1989 the
patient again presented with recurrent endocarditis and underwent a
repeat mitral valve and aortic valve replacement. For the past year
prior to presentation , she has had increasing symptoms of right
heart failure including lower extremity edema and ascites which did
not improve with medical treatment. She has also presented with
complaints of shortness of breath. In February of 1993 she underwent
a transesophageal echo which revealed a perivalvular leak for which
she underwent her third mitral valve replacement. Tricuspid
annuloplasty was performed at that time. The patient has never
significantly improved past her most recent surgery and her most
recent transesophageal echo performed in Ta Ca Elponcevo three
weeks prior to presentation demonstrated again a perivalvular
mitral leak. The patient has had a significant lower extremity
edema with a weight gain of 30 pounds since her discharge one month
ago. She has no shortness of breath at rest but does have
significant dyspnea on exertion with minimal effort. She denies
fever or chills.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Past medical history is as stated above. She
also has some chronic renal insufficiency
with baseline BUN and creatinine of 40 and 2.0. She is status post
cholecystectomy in 1990.
MEDICATIONS: Her medications on presentation to the Paa Talc Rton Health were
Lasix 100 mg b.i.d. , Digoxin 0.25 mg every other day ,
Coumadin 5 mg alternating with 2.5 mg every day , and Captopril 12.5
mg three times a day. She is allergic to penicillin and codeine.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Her admission physical exam was notable for
a tired appearing female with a cardiac exam
notable for mechanical valvular heart sounds and 4+ pitting lower
extremity edema.
LABORATORY DATA: Her admission BUN and creatinine were 61 and 1.9.
HOSPITAL COURSE: She was admitted to the Cardiology Service and
was evaluated by the Cardiac Surgical Service , and
it was felt that mitral valve repair and/or replacement would be
beneficial to the patient. She , therefore , underwent mitral valve
repair on 8 of February but was without significant symptoms for her
right heart failure , and was placed on the cardiac transplant list.
She underwent successful cardiac transplantation on 16 of July .  Since
that time , her main issues have centered over management of her
residual ascites with diuresis of her third spaced volume.
Additionally she had had some nose bleeds preoperatively which were
felt to be related to nasal polyps for which she was seen by the
ENT Service. She underwent routine post transplant biopsies and
echocardiograms , all of which showed adequate acceptance of organs
and good LV function. She continued to do quite well with the
exception of some dysphagia early in her postoperative course which
was found to be possibly secondary to some esophageal ulcerations ,
but these have subsequently resolved and she is tolerating a
regular diet. She was noted two days prior to transfer to the
Norri Verlan Medical Center to have some diffuse mild
abdominal pain , and KUB and upright revealed large amounts of
stool , and she felt great relief from soap suds enemas. She has
been stable on her medications with adequate cyclosporine levels.
Imuran was recently held secondary to neutropenia.
DISPOSITION: The patient was transferred to the Holls Health on approximately the third
postoperative week from her cardiac transplant.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Her discharge medications include Mylicon 80
mg p.o. t.i.d. , Trental 400 mg p.o. t.i.d. ,
Nystatin cream topically once per day , Mycostatin powder topically
once per day , terbutaline 5 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Nystatin swish and
swallow 10 cc p.o. t.i.d. , magnesium oxide 280 mg p.o. b.i.d. ,
human regular insulin 4 units subcu q a.m. and before dinner and
NPH insulin 28 units subcu q a.m. , omeprazole 20 mg p.o. q a.m. ,
cyclosporine 150 mg p.o. b.i.d. plus levels checked daily ,
potassium 40 mEq q a.m. , prednisone 27.5 mg p.o. q a.m. , Lasix 40
mg p.o. q a.m. , Percocet as needed for pain and Serax 10 mg as
needed at night for sleep.
FOLLOW UP: She will follow up with the Cardiac Transplantation
Service. She is referred to Rush-coo Chry's Calctist Medical Center for physical therapy rehabilitation as well as medications
management and assistance. She is discharged to U Hospital on 4 of October . 
Dictated By: WERNER YOON , M.D. MP09
Attending: ISMAEL L. PRUIETT , M.D. AF37  MZ958/0261
Batch: 535 Index No. B5OMXL1GUQ D: 6/6/93
T: 6/6/93
[report_end]
