RECORD #427771
652965318 | SOSH | 77275770 | | 902911 | 7/6/1995 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 3/11/1995 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 1/26/1995
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS:
1. New stroke , right sided weakness and confusion.
OTHER DIAGNOSES:
2. Myasthenia gravis.
3. Osteoarthritis.
4. Pernicious anemia.
5. Hypertension , degenerative joint disease.
CHIEF COMPLAINT: Right sided weakness and confusion.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Ms. Benny is an 83 year old woman
with a history of myasthenia gravis ,
arthritis , pernicious anemia and hypertension and degenerative
joint disease with nerve impinging resulting in decreased reflexes
in the left lower extremity. She was in her usual state of health
until when she woke to go to the bathroom at approximately 2 a.m.
on the day of admission. She had difficulty getting up from the
sofa where she sleeps and slipped and fell to her knees. Because
she stated , "her right leg was weak". She started speaking and
talking loudly. Her son heard her , came up to help her. At the
time he arrived , she was crawling around on her hands and knees and
appeared to be mildly confused. He helped her up and assisted her
to the bathroom. She was able to walk with assistance and returned
to bed and did not feel like she needed to call a physician at that
time. She then awoke at approximately six in the morning and was
able to walk without assistance to wash her face and then to eat
breakfast. However , at breakfast , the son noted that she was using
her right hand clumsily cutting pieces of banana onto the floor ,
not adequately reaching her mouth to feed herself and had begun to
use her knife to eat her cereal. He discussed the problem with
her. She agreed that she probably needed to call a doctor about
this. She attempted to get out of the chair and again slipped
forward because of right leg weakness. She contacted her physician
who recommended that she be seen at the Troitcape Medical Center
When seen there , when leaving , her son noted that she seemed to run
into things on her right side. With entering the car , did not pick
up her right leg well. At the scboth community hospital , she was found to
have significant right hand weakness and proximal right leg
weakness. She was sent to the Ist Oska Rutl Memorial Health for further evaluation.
She denies having had any previous neurologic events similar to
this episode. She has had an episode of dizziness , nausea and
vomiting associated with a severe right occipital headache back in
0/28 at which time she was evaluated at the Hosch Reathertage Supro Grahot Clinic and was given
diagnosis of benign positional vertigo which since resolved. At
that time , she had a CT scan which showed only periventricular
white matter disease as well as an increased soft tissue density in
the region of the sella. An LP at that time revealed no white
cells and red cells which cleared with successive tubes. She also
six months ago was diagnosed with myasthenia gravis. At that time ,
she had the following symptoms: She had difficulty keeping her
neck up , difficulty swallowing , her eyelids were drooping. These
symptoms resolved quickly with Tensalon injection. She has been
since started on Mestinon and Prednisone with good relief and is
followed by Dr. Kaushiva at Ci Hospital for this problem
and was initially diagnosed by Dr. Gerbatz at Lametizens Health Services .
With regards to her current episode , she denies having any
symptoms of chest pain , shortness of breath , nausea , vomiting and
palpitations. She has not had any febrile illness , nausea or
vomiting recently. She has not had any episodes of a shade coming
down before her eyes.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: 1. Myasthenia gravis diagnosed by
Dr. Wilson Pozos at Hermum Medical Center
approximately six months ago. Symptoms as described above , good
relief with Mestinon and Prednisone. 2. Pernicious anemia ,
intrinsic factor antibody positive , receives monthly B12
injections. 3. Spine degenerative joint disease , LS spine CT in
3/18 showed most marked deterioration at the L4-L5 vertebra with
spondylolisthesis , bilateral foraminal narrowing and moderate
spinal stenosis. She has long standing decreased reflexes in her
left leg and some decreased sensation to light touch in her left
foot. 4. Hypertension , has taken Reserpine intermittently over the
last 25 years. She has tolerated this well apparently. This is an
outmoded medication however because she has been on it so long , it
has not been discontinued. However , she has been noted to suffer
from some mild depression. 5. Osteoarthritis affecting mostly the
hands and feet followed by Dr. Hiram Rodrigus at Toncamp Hospital 6. Long standing difficulty sleeping , takes
Phenobarbital 15 mg at night prn for this problem for the last 30
years 7. Frequent UTI's. 8. Episode of benign positional vertigo ,
0/28 as described above. 9. Status post hysterectomy , status post
ovariectomy. 10. Some difficulty with rightward gaze and upward
gaze of the right eye noted as long back as 9/13 11. Hemorrhoids.
12. Right kidney 15 mm simple cyst noted incidentally on the
abdominal CT.
MEDICATIONS AT HOME: Prednisone 12.5 mg q.o.d. , Daypro 600 mg
q day ( arthritis medication ) , Mestinon 60
mg p.o. q.i.d. , Reserpine 0.25 mg q day and Phenobarbital 15 mg to
30 mg q h.s. ( for sleep ).
FAMILY HISTORY: Father and two brothers died in World War II.
Mother died of a lung problem.
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient worked as a lab assistant in the
Co Minbalt for preventative medicine
and later in pathology. She has been retired since 1968 , currently
volunteers at Pua Medical Center in the gift shop on Tuesday
afternoon. She lives with her husband and one son at home.
EXAM: The patient is an elderly appearing woman with a lively
voice and no apparent distress. She gestures much more
with her left hand compared to her right hand. Vital signs: Temp
97.8 , pulse 84 , blood pressure 110/80 , respirations 18. General
exam: HEENT normocephalic atraumatic. Left palpebral fissure is
slightly smaller than right. Throat without erythema. Neck: Good
range of motion. Chest: Faint end-expiratory wheezes , small
crackles at the right base. Coronary: Regular rate and rhythm ,
possible faint systolic murmur at the left upper sternal border , no
carotid bruits. Abdomen: Soft and nontender. Extremities: Joint
deformities most notable in the hands and feet. Joint deformities
in the hands include the distal interphalangeal joints which is
nonconsistent with rheumatoid arthritis , ulnar deviation of the
hand is present. Neuro exam: Mental status alert , oriented to
May , 1995 at *teet Memorial Hospital , Clinton/Gore ,
cannot remember the previous president , picks Reagan. Language:
Fluent and nondysarthric , good repetition , reading and
comprehension , poor word generation but is better in term than
attention. Patient can span five forward , backwards and misses
rely and tune , possibly mild decreased attention. Memory: Fair
for events leading to hospitalization but some difficulty getting
logical sequence of occurrences , may partly be due to language
difficulties. Visual spacial: Clock shows poor organization ,
writes numbers down the middle of the circle. Cranial nerves II:
Right pupil is slightly larger than left pupil , reactive , visual
fields full to confrontation , 3 , 4 , 6 , possible decreased abduction
and vertical upgaze of the right eye. However , she denies double
vision. VII: Smiles symmetrically. Eyebrows symmetric. There is
possibly decreased left nasolabial fold on the left , however , smile
is symmetric. VIII: Hearing intact , finger rubbing bilaterally.
IX , X: Palate is up bilaterally. Turgor of the mouth is 5/5.
Tongue midline. Motor: No drifts , difficulty with fine finger
movement on the right side which is slightly slower than on the
left , has especially more difficulty on the right side initiating
the movements figuring out what to do. Right rapid alternating
movements of the right hand is slightly slower than the left.
Power: Deltoid , biceps and triceps 5/5 , bilaterally symmetric ,
however does not raise her right deltoid as high. Wrist extensors
on the right are 4+/5 and on the left 5/5. Interossei on the right
5-/5 , on the left 5/5. Lower extremities: Iliopsoas , quads , hams
and gastrocs all 5/5 symmetric. EHL possibly slightly diminished
strength on the right. Has increased difficulty with heel to shin
on the right leg probably suggestive of proximal right lower
extremity weakness not apparent on cognition testing. Sensories
and light touch and pinprick are grossly intact throughout. No
double simultaneously stimulation extension , proprioception intact
in the feet bilaterally. Decreased vibration in the left foot
compared to the right foot , reflexes upper extremities 2+
symmetric , lower extremities - right lower extremity 3+ knee , 2+
ankle. Toes downgoing , left , 1+ knee , 1+ ankle , toe downgoing.
Coordination: Finger to nose within normal limits bilaterally.
Heel to shin slightly worse on the right lower extremity , possibly
secondary to proximal flexor weakness. Gait: Walks quickly but
requires holding onto assistants for balance. Incidentally , she
says it is because she needs shoes for arthritis , marked pronation
of the ankle on small steps.
LABS: Sodium 144 , potassium 3.9 , chloride 106 , C02 25 , BUN 15
and creatinine 0.9 , glucose 125 , calcium 10.5 , magnesium
2.0 , B12 was normal. RPR nonreactive. PFT's normal. Phenobarb
level not detected. Tox screen positive for Benzodiazepine ( this
may have been due to sedation she received for the CT. However , it
is not clear that she received sedation ). Hematocrit 34.6 with MCV
of 80.6 , platelets 217 , white count 9.05 , polys 73 , 18 lymphs , 7
monos , 2 eo and 7 basophils. PT 13.1 , PTT 25.7. CT:
Periventricular white matter disease , slightly increased density
above the sella.
HOSPITAL COURSE: This is an elderly woman with hypertension ,
myasthenia gravis and arthritis who presented
with weakness of her right lower extremity and right hand and some
confusion as evidenced by using a knife to eat her cereal instead
of a spoon. Her exam was notable for mildly impaired attention ,
possibly confused clock difficulty with handwriting and decreased
strength of the right hand and likely probably decreased strength
to the right lower extremity. Hip flexors is based on the relative
difficulty with heel to shin on the right. Old findings on exam
included abnormalities of the right eye muscles , decreased left
palpebral fissure and sensory findings in the left lower
extremities as well as reflexes. Her presentation was consistent
with possible small vessel stroke affecting the arm and leg more
than the face. This could have occurred in the pons area or the
internal capsule. The component of confusion however is less
explainable based on a deep lesion such as this and raised the
possibility of a small cortical insult. MRI showed no territorial
stroke , just T2 intense abnormalities in the periventricular white
matter , corona radiata and centrum semiovalle suggestive of small
vessel disease. Echo and Holter were not suggestive of
cardioembolic disease. Echo showed normal LV size , preserved LV
function with estimated ejection fraction of 80%. There is also
mild LVH , no thrombus was seen. There was aortic sclerosis with
mildly regurgitation , mild thickening of the mitral valve leaflets
with mild mitral regurgitation and bubble study was negative.
Holter was sinus rhythm at 54 to 127 beats per minute. Occasional
frequent APB's , 14 atrial couplets , five runs of SVT ranging from 3
to 10 beats with heart rates 108 to 182 , occasionally only frequent
VPB's at all hours and one ventricular couplet. Carotid
noninvasive studies showed no significant hemodynamic lesions. Of
note on the MRI , the basilar artery appeared to be small caliber
and the carotid showed some calcification. On carotid noninvasive
studies , however , there was only minimal plaque in the carotid
arteries.
In summary , it appears that Ms. Epperly had a small vessel stroke.
She showed some critical improvement during hospital stay and was
able to walk without assistance on the second hospital day. She
also had improved right hand function and appeared to be less
confused. We recommended starting enteric coated aspirin which she
is to take one per day. In the setting of the acute stroke , we did
not control her blood pressure aggressively. Her pressures ranged
from systolics of 120 to 180 averaging around 140 to 150 with
diastolics usually in the 80's. We have suggested that she
discontinue the use of her Reserpine as intermittent use is
problematic especially with this medication and she admits to
intermittent use as well as the fact that she has suffered from
some mild depression that can be associated with Reserpine. She
will be started on an alternative blood pressure as an out-patient
with Dr. Scotton in the next week. We did not wish to start this
medication in the acute setting. She will likely be started on an
Ace inhibitor for blood pressure control. We also suggested that
she discontinue the use of Phenobarbital for sleep as this might
contribute to confusion.
Finally , since she is on Prednisone and Mestinon , we asked the
patient whether she was taking GI prophylaxis. Evidently , she only
does this intermittently as well. She may be on Carefate , however ,
we suggested taking an H2 blocker once in the evening and have
provided her with the prescription for Zantac 150 mg q h.s. She
will follow-up with Dr. Milosch , her primary doctor at Ni Health as well as Dr. Salmen at the Ont Hospital
for her myasthenia gravis and stroke. She has an appointment with
Dr. Zurovec next week on Wednesday.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS:
1. Enteric coated aspirin 325 mg q day.
2. Prednisone 12.5 mg p.o. q.o.d.
3. Mestinon 60 mg p.o. q.i.d.
4. Daypro one p.o. q day.
5. Zantac 150 mg q h.s.
6. B12 monthly injections.
7. To be started on a blood pressure medication as an out-patient
by Dr. Aline
Condition on discharge: Stable. Disposition: Home with
occupational therapy visits and blood pressure visits.
Dictated By: DORIAN G. MARLOW , M.D.
Attending: KURT L. ARROYOS , M.D. PX21
WJ436/4819
Batch: 0928 Index No. 8ULEC1U6R D: 2/9/95
T: 11/30/95
CC: 1. Dr. Cohick Atcascarnen Highway , An Balt , Tennessee 62276 Sythpo Hospital
2. Dr. Devoti Tletsno Chio Montegiffbelle General Medical Center
3. Dr. Zack Hunstiger Sonplant Medical Center
[report_end]
