RECORD #432852
609884226 | ACMC | 17345149 | | 0364929 | 7/5/2005 12:00:00 AM | RENAL FAILURE | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 5/12/2005 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 3/13/2005
ATTENDING: WHITEY , OSWALDO MD
SERVICE: Et Sa Rill
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSES: Acute and chronic renal failure and
congestive heart failure.
OTHER PROBLEMS AND DIAGNOSES CONSIDERED: Type 2 diabetes ,
hyperlipidemia , acute and chronic renal insufficiency , upper GI
bleed with gastritis , ischemic cardiomyopathy , gout , sacral
decubitus ulcer.
BRIEF HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Mr. Slauson is a 60-year-old
man with a known history of ischemic cardiomyopathy and CHF , EF
of 35% , status post CABG in 1990 with redo in July 2005 , as well
as mitral and tricuspid valve repair and left atrial
reconstruction in July 2005. He presented asymptomatic from home
after being called by his primary cardiologist as the lab result
showed elevated BUN and creatinine at 244/4.1. This all occurred
in the setting of increased diuresis on torsemide , increasing the
dose from 100 mg by mouth twice daily to 150 mg by mouth twice
daily as well as a recent addition of Keflex for sacral decubitus
ulcer. On further questioning , Mr. Satoe reported symptoms of
increasing dyspnea on exertion with decreased exercise tolerance
as well as chronic loose stools with a history of C-diff
positivity but negative on last testing. He denied any chest
pain , pleurisy , nausea , vomiting , abdominal pain , and both he and
his family denied any change in mental status as well as
hematuria or dysuria , although he did complain of mild urinary
hesitancy. Prior to presentation , he was directed to hold his
diuretics , included torsemide as well as all other nephrotoxic
agents including allopurinol , colchicine , digoxin , and
lisinopril.
His allergies include heparin to which he has heparin-induced
thrombocytopenia.
In terms of medication reactions during this hospitalization , he
was placed on H. pylori treatment with amoxicillin ,
clarithromycin , and Nexium twice daily; and in reaction to this ,
he had mild elevation of his liver function tests.
BRIEF ADMISSION PHYSICAL: Mr. Blackmer is A&amp;O x3 with a BP of
90/60 , heart rate of 84. His lungs are bilaterally clear. His
heart exam shows a regular S1 , S2. Faint S3 with a 1/6
holosystolic murmur heard best at the apex with a JVD of 12 cm
plus V waves. His abdomen is benign. Extremities show no edema ,
but a left lower extremity petechial rash. He is found to be
heme positive with tarry stool , and he has a stable stage 4
sacral decubitus ulcer , well granulated without clear evidence of
infection.
Admission labs are significant for creatinine of 3.6 , BUN of 239 ,
potassium of 5.8 , digoxin of 1.7 , hematocrit of 29.3 , INR 4.1.
Admission EKG showed sinus rhythm with a first degree AV block.
Stable Q's in II , III , aVF , as well as V4 to V6. Left axis
deviation and right bundle branch block and an unchanged ST
depression in V2.
OPERATIONS AND PROCEDURES: 9/12/2005 , right heart
catheterization with PA line removal on 2/2/2005. 9/0/2005 ,
upper endoscopy and colonoscopy. 4/17/2005 , echocardiogram.
4/17/2005 , renal ultrasound.
HOSPPITAL COURSE:
1. Mr. Kristin presented with acute and chronic renal failure
with baseline BUN and creatinine at approximately 66/2.4 with a
rapid rise between presentation and the last noted value on
9/24/2005. Although , he was asymptomatic and did not have any
EKG changes , he was treated with Kayexalate and sodium
bicarbonate which resulted in rapid normalization of potassium.
The superelevation of his BUN was thought in part to be due to
possible over diuresis but also complicated by the fact that he
had Hemoccult positive stool as suspicious for a GI bleed as a
source of increased nitrogen. The renal service was consulted
and initial treatment of his acute renal failure included the
above plus removal of all fluid restriction and diuresis in order
to reverse any potential prerenal state. Essentially , all urine
and renal studies including eosinophils and renal ultrasound were
negative with a renal ultrasound showing normal kidneys without
hydronephrosis but without increased resistance in the feet
bilaterally. At the time of discharge , his creatinine and BUN
had fallen to 1.9/81 respectively and remained stable over days.
The initial renal diet restrictions imposed during the
hospitalization were removed towards the end of the stay with
persistently stable values as well.
2. From a cardiovascular standpoint , a repeat echo on 2/25
showed an EF of 35 to 40 with inferior wall and inferior septal
severe hypo to akinesis as well as posterior wall severe
hypokinesis with trace aortic insufficiency , 1+ mitral valve
regurgitation , 2+ tricuspid valve regurgitation but normal left
ventricular size and thickness as well as normal right
ventricular size function. In order to better assess his filling
pressures and fluid status and attempt to optimize his renal
function , Mr. Marthaler underwent a right heart cath with PA line
placement on 9/12/2005 which revealed elevating filling
pressures including right atrium at 26 to 27 , right ventricle
65/13 , PA 64/32 , wedge 36. Pulmonary artery sat 39% , SVR 1568 ,
and pulmonary vascular resistance 221. His cardiac output and
index were both reduced. The PA line was left in for tailor
therapy , and he was initially placed on nesiritide drip at 0.005
as well as a Lasix drip with good urine output and increase in
his cardiac output and index and decrease in his elevated
systemic vascular resistance. On 2/17/2005 , the nesiritide drip
was discontinued and Lasix continued with the addition of
short-acting nitrates in the form of Isordil. Eventually , he was
transferred from the Lasix drip to torsemide reaching optimal
dose of 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. on 1/13/2005 , and further tailoring
with Imdur 30 and hydralazine 10 mg p.o. t.i.d. for further
afterload reduction were preformed. Lisinopril previously used
on admission was continuously held given the recent acute renal
failure.
3. From an ischemic standpoint , there were no active issues
during the hospitalization. His beta blocker was reduced to 12.5
briefly , but his normal dose of 25 once a day was resumed prior
to discharge. In terms of his rate , it was well controlled on
the above regimen , but his rhythm showed frequent ectopy without
response to diuresis or beta blockade. He does have an ICD in
place which never fired during the course of the hospitalization.
Upon discharge , he was close to euvolemia with an approximate
discharge weight of 67.6 kg.
4. From a GI standpoint , his initial presentation included
heme-positive tarry stools with elevated BUN. He was seen by the
GI service and underwent a colonscopy and upper EGD which were
significant for gastritis without signs of active bleeding as
well as internal hemorrhoids. H. pylori serologies were
positive , and he was initially started on clarithromycin ,
amoxicillin , and Nexium b.i.d. , but this regimen was changed to
amoxicillin , Flagyl , and Nexium b.i.d. given an elevation of his
LFTs on the prior regimen. There was no overt GI bleeding , and
he tolerated the procedure without complication.
5. From a nutrition standpoint , Mr. Splatt was seen by a
nutrition specialist who confirmed suspicion of suboptimal
caloric intake meeting his total caloric needs about only 60% and
total protein needs are 85% despite labilization of his diet and
the addition of Megace. His nutritional goals were even more
important given his large stage 4 sacral decubitus ulcer with
poor healing since March 2005. Despite encouragement and the
addition of appetite stimulants with vitamin C , zinc , mineral ,
multivitamins , and the addition of supplements , he presently fell
short of his goals but refused other means of diet
supplementation including NG tube placement and PEG placement and
is determined to provide adequate p.o. intake by mouth. He and
his family met with a registered dietitian and understand the
importance of his caloric intakes.
6. From a musculoskeletal point of view , he has stage 4 sacral
decubitus ulcer which is followed by plastic surgery and
frequently debrided as an outpatient , Dr. Bastress and his team ,
followed the patient while inhouse , and it was treated as per
protocol with b.i.d. dressing changes with Panafil and wet-to-dry
dressings. Initially , he was started on Keflex for suspicion of
infection in the wound , and this was changed to vancomycin given
MRSA growth in the wound and further Klebsiella growth which was
treated with levofloxacin , but these were all discontinued on
2/17/2005 as per plastic recommendations given the high
probability colonization. It was also felt that these
antibiotics would provide appropriate coverage for the possible
right lower lobe infiltrate questioned on x-ray.
7. From an endocrinology standpoint , he has a history of diabetes
type 2 , and he was continued on his Lantus and NovoLog insulin
sliding scale with titration of optimal glucose control in order
to promote wound healing. He was followed by the diabetes
management team.
8. From rheumatologic standpoint , he has a history of gout , and
he was maintained on allopurinol , renal dosing , but colchicine
helps. On about 10/9/2005 , he developed symptoms of podagra ,
and a prednisone taper starting at 15 mg was started with quick
resolution of symptoms.
9. From hematologic standpoint , he has anemia baseline and takes
Procrit once a week as an outpatient. He received 1 unit of
packed red blood cell transfusion on 1/24 and maintained his
hematocrit throughout the remainder of the hospitalization. He
was also maintained on darbepoetin as an inpatient.
Laboratory data showed no evidence of hemolysis with a normal
haptoglobin and LDH , but evidence of decreased iron saturation.
He was started on iron supplementation , and his Coumadin was held
for the supratherapeutic levels on admission and optimize prior
to discharge.
PERTINENT EXAM ON DISCHARGE: Patient was afebrile with stable
vital signs. He did have decreased breath sounds at the right
base know to correspond with his small right basilar opacity with
atelectasis. Other than that , his heart exam remained unchanged
with a regular rhythm , S1 and S2 , S3 , with a 1/6 holosystolic
murmur at the apex. His JVD was 11 cm , and he had no peripheral
edema.
Discharge lab showed a creatinine of 1.9 with a BUN of 81 ,
potassium of 3.6 , hematocrit 32.1 , white blood cell count 9000.
His digoxin level was normal at 0.8 , and his INR was 3.
CONSULTATNTS: Dr. Bingaman from Ox Derd Peake , Dr. Crisan from GI , Dr.
Whidbee from plastic surgery , Armando Mishulovin from nutrition , as
well as the diabetic management service.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Aspirin 81 mg by mouth daily , albuterol 2
puffs inhale 4 times a day as needed for shortness of breath
relieving , allopurinol 150 mg by mouth daily , amoxicillin 1000 mg
by mouth twice a day for a total of 14 days , vitamin C 500 mg by
mouth twice a day , digoxin 0.0625 mg by mouth daily , Colace 100
mg by mouth twice a day , iron 150 mg by mouth twice a day ,
hydralazine 10 mg by mouth 3 times a day , Megace 40 mg by mouth
daily , Reglan 10 mg by mouth 4 times a day as needed for nausea ,
oxycodone 5 to 10 mg by mouth every 4 hours as needed for pain.
Prednisone taper , to complete the following course , 15 mg by
mouth daily for 3 days , 10 mg by mouth daily for 3 days , and then
5 mg by mouth daily for 3 days , to be administered sequentially.
Multivitamin with minerals 1 table by mouth daily , Coumadin 3 mg
by mouth every evening , zinc sulfate 220 mg by mouth daily ,
Toprol XL 25 mg by mouth daily , Imdur 30 mg by mouth daily ,
torsemide 100 mg by mouth twice daily , Nexium 40 mg by mouth
twice daily , Lantus 40 units subcutaneously nightly , NovoLog 14
units subcutaneously 5 mL , Flagyl 500 mg by mouth 4 times a day
for a total of 14 days , potasium chloride slow release tablets 40
mEq by mouth daily , and Procrit 40 , 000 units subcutaneously
weekly.
He was discharged in a stable condition. There were no pending
tests or followup tests needed. He will follow with Dr. Leandro Deprez He is full code.
PRIMARY CARE PHSYICAIAN/HEALTH OFFICICER: Odis Mike ,
M.D.
eScription document: 4-0169070 HL
Dictated By: NOBLITT , ZACHERY
Attending: DELRIO , MACK
Dictation ID 7085575
D: 6/17/05
T: 11/1/05
[report_end]
