RECORD #435683
261209550 | ICH | 74936279 | | 5609579 | 7/6/2006 12:00:00 AM | SEPSIS | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 2/21/2006 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 2/0/2006
ATTENDING: RAMINEZ , ISRAEL M.D.
CHIEF COMPLAINT:
Weakness , shortness of breath , and dizziness.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS:
This is a 48-year-old female who was discharged to home on
6/13/06 from Nixma County Hospital after an ICU admission for
pneumonia and Klonopin overdose. Two days prior to admission
here , she experienced shortness of breath at rest and some
lightheadedness. At baseline , she becomes dyspneic after walking
20 feet secondary to obesity and many years of smoking. She also
notes several days of headache and some questionable darkening in
her visual fields bilaterally. She admits that her p.o. intake
has been rather poor since coming home secondary to anorexia and
that she has felt dehydrated. On review of systems , she also
notes chronic waxing and waning erythema of the right lower
extremity which in recent days has worsened with accompanying
swelling and mild tenderness , although her son says that it has
been worse in the past. Also , she has noted loose stools since
6/2/06. She denies chest pain , pleurisy , abdominal pain , blood
in her stool or urine , dysuria , change in frequency , character or
urination , or focal weakness. No new medications other than a
recent antibiotic course at Dale Skin Sonmu Medical Center completed there for
pneumonia. She has not taken her lisinopril or methadone in the
last two days. She has no sick contact. She saw her PCP on
0/10/06 who found her to be hypotensive and hypoxic and then
sent her to Ma County Hospital ED. Her family is not clear on her
discharge diagnosis , but they report that her kidney function was
abnormal and she was dehydrated. She was not admitted. She then
came to the ED at Town Medical Center And Clinics for persistent shortness of
breath and dizziness. In the ED , her vital signs were that she
was afebrile , her systolic blood pressure was in the high 60's ,
her heart rate was 110 , respiratory rate in the 30's , and O2
saturations were in the high 80's. She was given vancomycin ,
Levaquin and gentamicin and 3 liters of normal saline. She was
aggressively given fluids and was started on Levophed for blood
pressure support. Her EKG was notable for low voltage on
precordial leads and borderline right axis deviation. Chest
x-ray showed cardiomegaly , but otherwise clear. In the MICU , her
blood pressure was stabilized on Levophed , but she was also noted
to drop her blood pressure to the 70's when initiated on her home
BiPAP settings.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
She had endocarditis 20 years ago. She has obstructive sleep
apnea , on her home BiPAP , morbid obesity , and hypertension. She
had a right ankle injury more than 20 years ago during the motor
vehicle accident , which was complicated by an ankle infection.
She has chronic right lower extremity pain and she is on
methadone. She had a Klonopin overdose. She had Enterobacter
pneumonia. She was treated with cefepime at that time ,
questionable the vancomycin. She has a questionable diagnosis of
COPD with her extensive smoking history. In a well state , her
PCO2 was 49 , her O2 saturation is 89% , and she has also history
of depression.
MEDICATIONS AT HOME:
Lisinopril and methadone. She is not taking her lisinopril. She
has in the past taken lisinopril with hydrochlorothiazide.
ALLERGIES:
She is allergic to penicillin and sulfa drugs.
SOCIAL HISTORY:
She smoked half a pack a day for 30 years. No alcohol for three
years. No illicit drugs. She lives at home , but does not work.
She is on disability.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION:
She was afebrile , heart rate in the 100's , blood pressure 130/80 ,
respiratory of 18 , and O2 saturation 95% on 8 liters of oxygen.
She was awake and alert and in no acute distress. She is
anicteric , without pallor. She had a thick neck. Pulmonary:
She had decreased breath sounds and crackles at the bases
bilaterally. Cardiovascular: She was tachy , regular , but
distant S4. JVP was difficulty to ascertain secondary to neck
habitus. Her abdomen was obese , + bowel sounds , nontender and
nondistended. Extremities were without erythema of her legs , but
with mild swelling of the right lower ankle. The ankles were
without swelling and with full range of motion. Neurologically ,
she was alert and oriented , but unfocused in conversation , moving
all her extremities. Her strength was intact.
LABORATORY STUDIES ON ADMISSION:
Please see LMR.
ASSESSMENT AND PLAN:
This is a 49-year-old woman with a recent ICU stay at an outside
hospital who presented with hypotension , tachycardia , and acute
renal failure. Presentation was most consistent with right
pulmonary embolus and right ventricular failure.
HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEM:
1. Pulmonary/Vascular: There was initial concern for a PE given
the presentation of severe hypotension , tachycardia , and Aa
gradient without evidence of infection or primary cardiac
disease. An echo showed a dilated RV with depressed RV function
suggestive of PE. Her initial PE scan was nondiagnostic
secondary to poorly timed contrast and motion of the patient. A
VQ scan showed intermediate probability. She was started on
heparin drip with a goal of 60 to 80. Her second PECT showed a
small PE to the right upper lobe , but it was not large enough to
explain her dramatic presentation. The working hypothesis is
that there was a significant recanalization prior to this repeat
CT which took place two days after the first CT. She was
initially on oxygen in the ICU. She was never intubated. She
was on face mask , and upon transfer to the floor , she was on
nasal cannula 4 liters. Her O2 saturations were acceptable
in-house , although she did desaturate to 90% when she took her
oxygen off a night. She multiple times refused BiPAP while in
the hospital , but she will go back on it when she returns home.
2. Cardiovascular: She had a mild troponin elevation on
admission , likely secondary to RV strain. She had severe
hypotension and was on two pressors. She was weaned off of these
on 4/15/06 , but did have an episode of hypotension when her
BiPAP was started. She was given a little bit of low dose
dobutamine and then she was weaned off of that on 3/6/06.
Rhythm: She has no active issues. We continued to hold her
lisinopril while in-house. Her blood pressures were stable , but
not high enough to withstand on additional blood pressure
lowering medication. It was discussed with her PCP that she
perhaps will need this medication restarted as an outpatient.
She does have a history of severe hypertension.
3. Renal: As she was in acute failure on admission with a
creatinine of 6.9 , it dropped to 0.5 , most likely this was due to
prerenal azotemia and decreased renal perfusion in the setting of
hypotension. Hypoperfusion of the kidneys in setting of
hypovolemia and right heart failure resulting in decreased left
ventricular preload. Mucomyst and bicarb were given prior to the
PECTs of her renal protection. She did not develop any
additional contrast nephropathy after her CT scans. Her
creatinine on discharge was 0.6.
4. Endocrine: She had a normal increase in her cortisol level
with ACTH stimulation. Her fingersticks were monitored while she
was in-house and she never had any need for supplemental insulin.
5. FEN: She was on a house diet.
6. ID: She was empirically covered on admission with
vancomycin , levofloxacin and gentamicin. Her antibiotics were
given again on 10/16/06 and on 11/13/06. There was no evidence
of an infection found , no fever , normal white count , with a
normal differential , normal UA , chest x-ray is without
infiltrate , and antibiotics were discontinued on 4/21/06. She
continued to remain afebrile in-house without any evidence of
infection.
7. Urology: She did complain of bladder spasms while having the
Foley in place. She was started on Ditropan. She had multiple
negative urinalysis and urine cultures. Once the Foley was
discontinued , she was able to void and she stopped having bladder
spasms. She was started on Monistat for a yeast infection.
8. Allergy: She did have an elevated eosinophilia on
presentation and it was 4% on admission and increased to 8% on
4/21/06. On the day of discharge , it was 7.5. There is no
clinical evidence of allergy , rheumatic disease or parasitic
infection. Her obstructive lung disease may be of an asthma
variant , and there is the possibility she may need inhaled
corticosteroids as an outpatient.
9. Heme: She was on unfractionated heparin for her presumed PE
until 6/15/06 and then she was changed to Lovenox in the morning
of that day on 120 mg subq. Her weight at that time was 157 kg.
Her Coumadin , her initially given 10 , then a dose of 5 and then 2
dose of 7.5. Her INR was therapeutic on the day of discharge at
2.5. She will continue on the Lovenox for two additional days.
Her INR will be monitored by Dr. Kid , her PCP.
10. Psych/Addiction: We are continuing her methadone. It has
been switched from 20 mg p.o. daily to 10 mg p.o. b.i.d. She was
also given a little bit of Ativan while in-house to help with her
agitation and anxiety. She was initially given a little bit of
Haldol , but that was discontinued on 8/4/06 and there was no
additional need for that. She did have a central line placed on
4/18/06 , which was discontinued on 6/15/06 without any evidence
of any line infection and without any problems. She was seen by
Social Work and PT. The patient refused to go to any sort of
rehab or nursing home. It was decided that the patient would
return home with skilled nursing and with PT as needed.
eScription document: 1-3509519 EMSSten Tel
Dictated By: MCMAIN , MITCHELL
Attending: MCDUGLE , VINCENZO
Dictation ID 6997683
D: 2/21/06
T: 2/21/06
[report_end]
