RECORD #444686
994885583 | SH | 56755636 | | 9353735 | 9/19/2003 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 11/25/2003 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date:
ADMISSION DIAGNOSES: PNEUMONIA , RULE OUT MYOCARDIAL INFARCTION
( MI ).
CHIEF COMPLAINT: CHEST PAIN AND SHORTNESS OF BREATH.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient is a 60-year-old male
with a history of hypertension , LVH ,
and heroin use , who presented with shortness of breath times
several weeks which was sometimes associated with chest pain. The
patient noted that the shortness of breath was often brought on by
heroin use ( He has not used cocaine for several years. His last
heroin use was the day prior to admission. ). His shortness of
breath was "off and on , " worse with exertion. It was not
necessarily worse when lying flat. He has had this shortness of
breath for several months , although as mentioned , was worse in the
weeks prior to admission. His chest pain was hard for him to
describe , although , he did mention that it was not heavy in
character. He admitted to some chest discomfort when he became
excited or agitated. He also described his chest pain as sharp.
There was no nausea. He did complain of some dizziness. His pain
did not radiate to the neck or arms and was different from
heartburn pain. Of note , the patient has not taken his outpatient
medications for the last six months and admits to diet
noncompliance with salty foods. The patient's last heroin use , as
mentioned , was the day prior to admission. In the past , he has
noticed that he cannot go more than two days without symptoms of
withdrawal.
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: Positive for constipation for which he takes
laxatives. There is no abdominal pain.
Occasional headache. No change in vision. No dysuria.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: 1. Remarkable for IV drug abuse - heroin
currently , cocaine in the past.
2. Hypertension times many years. 3. Gout. 4. Left ventricular
hypertrophy.
MEDICATIONS: The patient has taken no medications for six months.
ALLERGIES: No known drug allergies.
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient lives in Ver La A with his
brother and his sister. He is on disability since
1992. He smokes one pack every 3 days. He rarely uses alcohol.
He does use IV drugs as mentioned.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Temperature 97.3 , heart rate 95. Upon
presentation to the emergency room , his
blood pressure was 190/110 , respiratory rate 24 , O2 sat 100% on two
liters. GENERAL: The patient was seated and in no acute distress.
HEENT: Conjunctiva was slightly pink but nonicteric. Extraocular
muscles are intact. Pupils are equal , round , and reactive to
light. He had poor dentition. His JVP was 7 cm. LUNGS: Clear to
auscultation on the left. On the right there were some crackles
midway up the lung field. HEART: Regular rate and rhythm with a
normal S1 , S2. There were no murmurs , rubs , or gallops.
ABDOMEN: Markedly hypoactive bowel sounds. His belly was soft and
obese , nontender. There were no obvious masses. EXTREMITIES: The
patient had 2+ pulses. There was no clubbing , cyanosis , or edema.
NEUROLOGIC: The patient was alert and oriented x 3. Neural exam
was otherwise nonfocal.
ADMISSION LABORATORY DATA: Sodium 141 , potassium 3.4 , chloride
106 , bicarbonate 23 , BUN 21 , creatinine
2.1 , glucose 107 , calcium 8.4. CK was 158 with an MB of 2.2 ,
troponin was 0.12. Toxicology screen was negative. Urine
toxicology was positive for opiates. Urinalysis was remarkable for
1+ blood and 3+ protein. CBC white count was 6.9 , hematocrit 45.7 ,
platelets 301 , 000. PT was 13.2 , PTT 32.6 , INR 1.0.
Chest x-ray showed cardiomegaly with a right pleural effusion and a
right middle lobe pneumonia. EKG on arrival to the emergency room
showed an irregular ventricular rate at 156 which was likely atrial
fibrillation vs flutter. There was a normal axis. There were
T wave inversions in the inferior leads as well as V5 and V6. The
EKG was then repeated after the patient had received diltiazem
which showed sinus rhythm at 86. There were still T wave
inversions in AVL and V6. There was borderline first-degree AV
block. There was LVH and T waves were flat inferiorly.
HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEMS: 1. Cardiovascular - ischemia. The
patient ruled out for MI by CKs but
had a troponin which peaked at 0.12. This was thought to be rate
related. Blood pressure control was established with verapamil
( The patient had severe bronchospasms to Lopressor and it was
unclear whether it was cardiac asthma or real bronchospastic
reaction. ) , clonidine , and losartan. ( The patient had cough and
desaturation to captopril. ) Aspirin was given. A lipid panel was
checked and showed a total cholesterol of 188 , LDL 130 , HDL 56 and
triglycerides of 63. The patient was initially continued on
simvastatin. Because of the worry of CHF , ( History of low EF ,
possible orthopnea ) an echocardiogram was performed which showed
LVEF only 25% with global hypokinesis and inferior/posterior
akinesis. The etiology of his heart failure was unclear as he had
never had a known myocardial infarction in the past. A chemical
stress test was performed on November , 2003 , and showed no
reversible defect but a large inferior scar. The patient was
subsequently taken to cardiac catheterization to determine whether
he had coronary artery disease. There was no coronary artery
disease on left heart cath. Right heart cath showed an elevated
pulmonary capillary wedge pressure close to 30 and a central venous
pressure of 18. His cardiomyopathy was not shown to be ischemic in
origin. There was no indication seen for AICD placement. However ,
for the elevated central pressures , the patient was aggressively
diuresed with IV Lasix which was then changed to p.o. torsemide.
Aspirin and simvastatin were discontinued given lack of coronary
artery disease for the sake of simplifying his medical regimen in
order to optimize the chance of medical compliance.
2. Pulmonary. The patient was given levofloxacin for
community-acquired pneumonia and improved. On the evening of
admission , he had a severe bronchospastic reaction to Lopressor so
this was discontinued. He received nebulizers around the clock for
recurrent wheeze and cough. It was noted that the onset of his
cough was after his captopril dosing. For this reason , captopril
was discontinued and changed to losartan which he tolerated well
and with resolution of his cough.
3. Renal. The patient's creatinine was noted to be up to the
mid-2s from a baseline in the mid-1s. Potential etiologies on
admission where thought to be hypertension , gout , heroin use or a
low flow during his cardiac arrhythmia on presentation. A phenol
was calculated and was shown to be less than 1%. A 24-hour protein
was performed and showed over 3 gm of protein. The most likely
cause of this proteinuria was thought to be CHF , although , the
patient should have renal follow up. The patient refused Mucomyst
in anticipation of his cardiac catheterization. He underwent a
renal ultrasound which showed increased echogenicity of both
kidneys which was consistent with medical renal disease. There was
no hydronephrosis seen. There were bilateral renal cysts and a
right renal calculus. The patient will be seen in follow up with
Dr. Doles of renal.
4. Heroin addiction. The LCMC team was consulted for heroin
addiction. Methadone was given and was tapered to off during his
admission.
5. Other. Allopurinol was given for his history of gout.
6. Prophylaxis. The patient was kept on subcu heparin.
The patient will follow up with Dr. Boddorf , his primary care
doctor , on Tuesday , November , 2003 , at 8:00 AM and with
Dr. Dunegan of renal on November , 2003 , at 1:30 PM.
CONDITION ON DISCHARGE: Stable.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Allopurinol 200 mg p.o. q day , losartan
100 mg p.o. q day , albuterol inhaler two
puffs q.i.d. p.r.n. wheeze , amlodipine 10 mg p.o. q day and
torsemide 40 mg p.o. b.i.d.
Dictated By: GROVER PREFONTAINE , M.D. YX55
Attending: JUDE PETTER , M.D. XZ02
GJ258/458448
Batch: 99563 Index No. PYFC9R5LXR D: 4/8/03
T: 4/8/03
CC: 1. DR. VANPELT , AT INA UNIVERSITY MEDICAL CENTER
[report_end]
