RECORD #448263
662587058 | RH | 59624946 | | 162966 | 7/3/1995 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 0/1/1995 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 7/8/1995
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS: INFECTION/RULE OUT ENDOCARDITIS.
SIGNIFICANT PROBLEMS: 1 ) STATUS POST STAPHYLOCOCCUS ENDOCARDITIS
IN January 1995.
2 ) STATUS POST AORTIC VALVE REPLACEMENT
TIMES THREE WITH ST. JUDE IN May 1995.
3 ) NON-INSULIN DEPENDENT DIABETES MELLITUS.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This is a 65 year old man with a
history of rheumatic heart disease
status post aortic valve replacement times three who suffered acute
bacterial endocarditis ( Staphylococcus aureus , not MRSA ) in 9/5
He presented with nausea , vomiting times one , "a black out" ,
weakness , and temperature of 101.2 the morning of admission. This
patient was admitted back on 6/12/95 with fever times five days ,
nasal congestion , and change in mental status. He was found in bed
with fecal incontinence and increased confusion at that time. Back
in March 1995 , the initial TE showed no vegetation. He was
treated with Cefotaxime and Vancomycin. Patient subsequently
developed atrial fibrillation with congestive heart failure and the
hypertension. On March , he was intubated at which time a TE
showed aortic vegetations. Blood cultures grew Staphylococcus
aureus and the antibiotics were changed to Oxacillin and
Tobramycin. Patient underwent a high risk redo aortic valve
replacement with St. Jude mechanical valve because of persistent
sepsis. The antibiotics were narrowed to Oxacillin. Patient had a
number of septic embolic events and emboli were thrown to the brain
with a right MCA stroke and the spleen as well as the duodenum. On
2/26 , he had an elevated white count , increasing temperature , and
increasing renal failure. At that time , the CT showed these renal
and splenic abscesses and patient was taken to the Operating Room.
He underwent a splenectomy and was found to have a perforated
duodenal ulcer. He underwent vagotomy with pyeloplasty. The
spleen showed multiple abscesses which grew out Candida. On this
admission , the patient was in his usual state of good health until
one week prior to admission when he experienced fatigue. At
baseline , the patient experienced intermittent sharp chest pain
felt to be musculoskeletal secondary to open thoracic surgery.
Patient also experienced pins and needle feelings felt in both
hands. On the night prior to admission , the patient sneezed
experiencing increased back pain. Later that night , he awoke
diaphoretic with aches and pains in the legs. Patient was sick in
the stomach but believed he would feel better if he ate watermelon
whereupon finishing , he had nausea and vomiting times one. Patient
went back to bed and awoke with joint pain throughout with
temperature at 7 a.m. on 100.1 degrees. Later while sitting in a
chair trying to dress , he stood and things started "to go black".
He walked towards the bathroom , got weak , knew he was going down ,
avoided falling down the stairs , and landed on all fours on his
hands and knees. Patient denied head trauma and suffered no
injury. He had no loss of continence or seizure activity. Patient
got up and moved to the bathroom under his own power. He had a
small bowel movement and felt better. Wife returned home and
temperature at 9 a.m. was 101.2. Patient was taken to Ertj. Health Urgent Care Center. At CTACH , he received blood cultures times
two and blood tests before being brought to the Gra Forro Memorial Hospital Emergency Room. Patient denied any recent cough , sore
throat , dysuria , and hematuria but did note increased nasal
congestion and shortness of breath over the past month.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: 1 ) History of rheumatic heart disease with
aortic valve replacement times three in
6/6 , 1981 , and 9/5 2 ) Acute Staphylococcus aureus bacterial
endocarditis with septic emboli to brain , kidney , and spleen in
7/24 3 ) Status post splenectomy and Candida cultured out. 4 )
Duodenal ulcer status post resection and gastrectomy with vagotomy.
5 ) Status post multiple cerebrovascular accidents. 6 ) Low back
pain. 7 ) Vertigo on Meclizine. 8 ) Benign prostatic hypertrophy.
9 ) Non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus. 10 ) Paroxysmal
atrial fibrillation.
CURRENT MEDICATIONS: Beclovent and Ventolin puffers , Lopressor 25
mg b.i.d. , Glyburide 2.5 mg q.d. , Hytrin 5 mg
q.h.s. , Senokot two tablets b.i.d. , Colace 100 mg b.i.d. , and
Coumadin 4 alternating with 5 mg q.p.m.
ALLERGIES: Penicillin caused a rash.
SOCIAL HISTORY: Tobacco of three packs per day times thirty years
and alcohol quit fifteen years ago. The patient
was unemployed on disability , he was a painter's rigger , and
married times 24 years with four children from his first wife , now
living with his second wife.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: Patient's temperature was 101.6 , blood
pressure 96/60 , pulse 88 , and respirations
28. HEENT: Pupils were equal and reactive to light and
accommodation , extraocular muscles were intact , normal funduscopic
examination , no Roth spots were noted , the oropharynx was benign ,
and no petechiae were noted. NECK: Supple and there was no
lymphadenopathy , his jugular venous distention was absent , an EJ
line was in place , and there was a 2+ carotid with zero bruits.
CHEST: Clear to auscultation bilaterally. HEART: Regular rate
and rhythm , S1 and S2 , and there was a holosystolic II/VI systolic
murmur at the left sternal border with no S3 or S4 noted. There
was a very crisp click from the St. Jude aortic valve. ABDOMEN:
Examination showed positive bowel sounds , soft , non-tender , and
non-distended. RECTAL: Refused by patient. NEUROLOGICAL:
Examination showed that the patient was alert and oriented times
three , cranial nerves II-XII were intact , motor was 5/5 in all four
extremities distally and proximally , sensory was normal to light
touch and proprioception , and the reflexes were equal and
symmetric. Cerebellar was slow , equal repetitive motions , and the
F&amp;F was slow but equal with good tracking grossly.
LABORATORY EXAMINATION: Of note , his white count was 19.1 with 18
bands and 53 polys , hematocrit was 41.8 ,
and the electrolytes were all within normal range. The bilirubins
were 0.8 total , alkaline phosphatase 82 , SGPT of 15 , and his PT was
20.7 with an INR of 3.4. A transthoracic echo obtained upon
admission showed the aortic valve was in place , there was a 2.9
meters per second flow through the aortic valve , and there was no
abscess or vegetation noted. Patient had reportedly gotten two
blood cultures in Ari Norer Legulf Hospital and it turned out later that there
had only been one blood draw. One blood culture was also drawn in
the Emergency Room at the Thoter Coast Community Healthcare . Chest
x-ray showed cardiomegaly , no infiltrate , and no congestive heart
failure and his EKG at admission showed normal sinus rhythm at 89
with an axis of minus 20 , intervals were 0.26/0.90/0.36 , there was
a flipped T in lead I , aVL , V5 , and V6 , and there was first degree
AV block.
HOSPITAL COURSE: This is a 65 year old gentleman who had had three
aortic valve replacements and had suffered
overwhelming endocarditis as recently as six months ago in the
replaced St. Jude valve at that time with a high risk valve since
patient was known to be febrile at the time of valve replacement.
Therefore , the number one problem was to rule out endocarditis.
The patient had two blood cultures , one at the Acraw Medical Center and one
at Ter'svenwhi Rywick Hospital , which were negative times 48 hours
while the patient was maintained on Vancomycin and Gentamicin. It
was judged that a TE would not change our treatment for this
gentleman and it was not obtained. An Infectious Disease
consultation was obtained and Infectious Disease recommended
observing the patient on antibiotics for an extra 24 hours before
deeming him non-bacteremic and then to observe the gentleman off
antibiotics for 24 hours before discharging him. In regards to
anti-coagulation , the patient was targeted for an INR of 3 with a
high risk prosthetic heart valve. This was easily maintained using
the patient's normal alternating 4 and 5 mg q.p.m. Coumadin. Final
issue was the patient's fall. It was judged that the patient
actually became weak and went down on all fours controlling his
fall without actual syncope. The weakness could be attributed to
the patient's nausea , vomiting , dehydration , and vasovagal. Final
issue was the non-insulin dependent diabetes mellitus. While the
patient was hospitalized , the Glyburide was held and patient was
maintained on a sliding scale of insulin. Patient's blood cultures
remained negative times three days while patient was treated with
Vancomycin and Gentamicin. As per Infectious Disease
recommendations , the intravenous antibiotics were held on the third
day and then patient was observed for 24 hours off antibiotics. He
continued to remain afebrile through the entire hospitalization and
patient was discharged to home on July .
DISPOSITION: Disposition is to home.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Tylenol 650 mg p.o. q.4h. p.r.n. headache ,
Ventolin two puffs inhaled b.i.d. ,
Beclovent two puffs inhaled b.i.d. , Beconase two puffs inhaled
q.i.d. p.r.n. congestion , Colace 100 mg p.o. t.i.d. , Meclizine 25
mg p.o. t.i.d. , Lopressor 25 mg p.o. b.i.d. , Senokot tablets two
tablets p.o. q.a.m. , Coumadin 4 mg p.o. q.o.d. alternating with 5
mg p.o. q.o.d. , every day , patient took either 4 or 5 alternating ,
and Glyburide 2.5 mg p.o. q.d. Patient was not discharged on any
antibiotics.
CONDITION ON DISCHARGE: Stable.
FOLLOW-UP: Arranged with his attending , Dr. Andre Raju for the
following week. Patient was also arranged to have an
MRI scan of his spine on Wednesday , 5/20 , at noon. This is to
rule out possibilities of osteomyelitis since patient had had low
back pain since septic events of 9/5
Dictated By: MARCOS M. BRANTLEY , M.D. SN87
Attending: MCKINLEY A. TERCERO , M.D. ES49
RE538/3492
Batch: 33688 Index No. DZBUE304OX D: 8/27/95
T: 10/27/95
[report_end]
