RECORD #449738


789989806 | HMC | 20775881 | | 9405886 | 7/0/2005 12:00:00 AM | CONGESTIVE HEART FAILURE | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 9/10/2005 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 2/1/2005
ATTENDING: KEMERER , DEAN OMAR MD
SERVICE: Cardiology Usoslee Avenue , Ri Dar Cincogarlstock ,  22451
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: Acute renal failure.
PROBLEMS AND DIAGNOSIS: Ischemic cardiomyopathy , coronary artery
disease , insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus with neuropathy ,
hypercholesterolemia , hypertension , polyarticular gout , elevated
CK , and osteoarthritis left hip.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Mr. Sheumaker is a 65-year-old gentleman
with known cardiomyopathy , coronary artery disease ,
osteoarthritis , insulin-dependent diabetes mellitus , who
presented with a 1 week of progressive fatigue and shortness of
breath. In the prior 2 weeks , he had been started on
hydrochlorothiazide. He had been nauseated and vomiting as a
result of Percocet taken for his left hip pain with resulting
decreased p.o. intake. He was evaluated in his primary care
clinic and felt to be in decompensated heart failure.
In the Emergency Department , he was dehydrated and found to be in
acute renal failure , hyperkalemic , and uremic. He complained of
joint soreness , particularly in his third proximal
interphalangeal joints bilaterally. His BUN and creatinine were
182 and 4.8 respectively. His potassium 6.4 , his sodium 128 , and
his CPK 1356 , and his uric acid level 11.6. Issues in the
hospital included hyperkalemia , acute renal failure secondary to
dehydration , polyarticular joint soreness and left hip pain. For
his hyperkalemia , the patient was treated with calcium ,
gluconate , insulin , Kayexalate and his potassium level returned
to normal levels by hospital day #2. For his acute renal
failure , the patient was hydrated gently with 60 cc of normal
saline. The renal service was consulted and assisted with
management. The patient was urinating. Renal ultrasound was
normal. Renal function returned to baseline and his creatinine
at discharge was 1.4. His baseline is 1.6. With correction of
his renal function , the patient regained strength. For his joint
symptoms , Rheumatology was consulted who performed arthrocentesis
of the left knee and diagnosed polyarticular gout. No treatment
was initiated in the setting of impaired renal function and a
concern for fluid retention. He has a followup appointment with
Rheumatology in July 2005. For his hip pain , his orthopedist ,
Dr. Schuchmann , evaluated him for possible future hip surgery.
Neurology was consulted regarding atrophy of thenar muscles and
elevated CPK. They did not feel a secure diagnosis could be made
and recommended following daily CPK , which trended down over the
course of hospitalization. Followup appointment in Neurology was
scheduled to discuss essential tremor and further investigate the
muscle wasting with nerve conduction studies and EMG if necessary
based on CPK levels. The patient had an echocardiogram on
hospital day #2 , which showed an ejection fraction of 40 to 45% ,
no pericardial effusion , and hypokinesis of the mid and distal
septum , mid and distal inferior wall and decreased global right
ventricular function. The patent foramen ovale was visualized.
At discharge , the patient was afebrile , hemodynamically stable ,
euvolemic , ambulating , and saturating on room air , and on a
stable medical regimen. He was followed by VNA at home starting
February , 2005 , for INR checks.
Followup appointments for Cardiology , Neurology , and Rheumatology
were put in place. The patient was asked to contact his primary
care physician to schedule a followup appointment.
On admission , the patient was afebrile and hemodynamically
stable.
eScription document: 6-5164249 SSSten Tel
Dictated By: PIERMONT , FLOYD
Attending: SULESKI , CHADWICK ANTONIO
Dictation ID 0550727
D: 8/24/05
T: 8/24/05
[report_end]
