RECORD #455105


691179146 | DSMH | 59601098 | | 0475499 | 8/17/2006 12:00:00 AM | METASTATIC ADENOCARCINOMA | Unsigned | DIS | Admission Date: 9/10/2006 Report Status: Unsigned

Discharge Date: 5/2/2006
ATTENDING: KELLIHER , ASHLEY MD
SERVICE: General Medicine Service.
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSIS: Altered mental status.
LIST OF PROBLEMS/DIAGNOSES: Altered mental status , metastatic
adenocarcinoma , diabetes type 2 , history of sarcoid by report ,
status post cholecystectomy , status post laminectomy of T9
through T12.
BRIEF HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Ms. Malloch is a 51-year-old 
woman with a history of metastatic adenocarcinoma of unknown
primary origin who presents as a transfer initially from Ons Hospital with altered mental status. The patient was initially
diagnosed with cancer and presenting with lower back pain in
10/22 when she was found to have lytic spinal and pelvic
lesions on MRI. Immunohistochemistry was most consistent with
pancreatic cancer origin. She was admitted to the Laso in early March for cord compression and
underwent XRT and laminectomy by orthopedic surgeon by Dr.
Kasey Mahaxay . During that admission , she was also noted to have
a large pericardial effusion and underwent pericardial window.
She was then discharged from Madei Coxcli Hospital on
1/30/06 to rehab. At rehab , the patient was noted to have
difficulties expressing herself and word finding at 01:00 a.m. on
the day of admission. Prior to this episode , she had normal
speech and mental status and it is pertinent to note that on the
day prior to admisison she had been seen in Oncology Clinic with
Dr. Randell Youkhana and hence was started on Zometa. The patient
denies any fevers , chills , neck stiffness or focal neurologic
symptoms. She was initially sent to Inh Hospital And Medical Center where a
noncontrast CT scan was done and found to be negative for an
acute process and was then admitted to General Service. At that
point , it had been over three hours since symptom onset and her
cancer further precluded any possible TPA therapy. An MRI was
then attempted to be obtained , however , the patient required
intravenous conscious sedation to attempt the MRI secondary to
agitation and anxiety. The patient received total of 2 mg of
Versed , 4.5 mg of IV Ativan and 2 mg of oral Ativan and several
attempts were made to facilitate the MRI. She was unable to sit
for MRI and was able to sit for a head CT with angiography. As
she became more and more somnolent , it was felt that additional
sedation might necessitate intubation. The Anesthesia Service
called and pointed out that the Mas MRI machine is
not compatible with intubated patients. The patient was then
transferred to Down Camp for possible MRI with
intubation. An LP at this time was also unable to be performed
secondary to her restlessness.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Metastatic adenocarcinoma , diabetes
mellitus type 2 , history of sarcoid ( although never had a
biopsy ) , status post cholecystectomy , status post laminectomy of
T9 , T11 and T12.
MEDICATIONS ON TRANSFER: Lorazepam 0.5 mg q.3 h. p.r.n.
agitation , omeprazole 20 mg p.o. daily , senna two tabs p.o.
b.i.d. p.r.n. constipation , metoprolol SR 50 mg p.o. daily ,
ondansetron 8 mg p.o. b.i.d. , furosemide 20 mg p.o. daily ,
insulin sliding scale , insulin Humalog 6 units a.c. , insulin NPH
10 units b.i.d. , enoxaparin 40 mg daily subcutaneous , docusate
100 mg p.o. b.i.d. p.r.n. constipation , Tylenol 650 mg q.6 h.
p.r.n. pain.
ALLERGIES: Penicillin with an unknown reaction.
ADMISSION PHYSICAL EXAM: Temperature of 98 degrees , heart rate
81 , blood pressure 107/51 , respirations 20 , sating 97% on 2 L.
General exam showed a drowsy-feeling patient who was oriented x1
( not for place or time ). HEENT exam shows pupils equal , round
and reactive with no photophobia. Neck exam showed a supple neck
with no lymphadenopathy. Pulmonary exam showed lungs clear to
auscultation bilaterally. Cardiovascular exam showed a JVP that
was difficult to assess , heart rate showed a regular rate and
rhythm , no murmurs , rubs or gallops , distal pulses were bilateral
and 2+ and symmetric. Abdominal exam showed an obese abdomen , is
nontender and nondistended with positive bowel sounds.
Extremities exam showed extremities warm and well perfused.
Neurologic exam showed the patient was alert and oriented only x1
with 2+ patellar reflexes , 2+ ankle reflexes and 1+ brachial
reflexes. The patient was poorly responsive to questions and
commands , hence a motor and sensory exam was unable to be
obtained , however , the patient was moving all extremities.
PERTINENT LABS ON ADMISSION: Included a negative tox screen ,
otherwise unremarkable. EKG showed sinus tach to 103 beats per
minute , slightly low voltage. Chest x-ray showed cardiac
enlargement without acute or active disease. Head CT showed no
acute intracranial abnormality noted. Urinalysis showed trace
leuk esterase , 5 to 10 white blood cells , 200 rbc's , however ,
urine culture showed no growth.
HOSPITAL COURSE BY PROBLEM:
1. Neurologic: The patient was initially admitted to the
medical ICU for possible MRI with intubation. However , upon
arrival , the patient was alert and oriented enough to refuse the
MRI/MRA ( this was desired to rule out metastatic disease versus
leptomeningeal disease ). Because she did not require she was
then sent to the floor on 0/11/06 .  A full toxic metabolic
workup was obtained , which showed the ammonia levels within
normal limits and nonreactive RPR , B12 assay that was actually
slightly elevated and a TSH level of 10.6 ( a full thyroid panel
was also sent , which was pending at the time of discharge and
should be followed ). Given the concern for her slight pyuria on
her UA and her altered mental status she was also given a
three-day course of ciprofloxacin , however , her urinary culture
was negative. She presently , within the first 24 hours of her
stay on the floor , her mental status improved remarkably and was
at her baseline. Hence , an MRI/MRA was not performed , as this
would require the patient to undergo further sedation ( it was
felt that her significant amount of benzodiazepines that were
given previously only served to worsen her mental status ). An LP
was not indicated at this time since she had returned to her
baseline. An echo was ordered but was not performed secondary to
the fact that the patient had had a previous echo within the last
month , but was desired to rule the very small chance that she had
marantic endocarditis with embolic phenomenon. At the time of
discharge , the patient was at her neurologic baseline and was
alert and oriented x4. The likely source of her altered mental
status appears to be toxic metabolic multifactorial etiology ,
including the possibility of Zometa effect , the urinary tract
infection and possible hypothyroidism.
2. Onc: The patient has an appointment with Dr. Garrett Gavidia of
Shiresy Medical Center Oncology on 4/18/06 to initiate Gemzar
chemotherapy.
3. Ortho: The patient has a followup appointment with Dr. Maron
of Spi Medical Center Orthopedics on 6/15/06 for
further followup.
4. Endocrine: The patient will be discharged to rehab on a
regimen of Lantus and sliding scale insulin. She should have her
TFTs followed up as they are pending at this time for possible
initiation of hormone replacement.
5. ID: The patient finished a three-day course of ciprofloxacin
for possible urinary tract infection , however , her urinary
culture was negative.
6. Cardiovascular: The patient was initially transferred on
metoprolol , however , her blood pressures have been well
controlled in-house. If her blood pressures are elevated at
rehab , one could consider restarting her metoprolol.
7. Disposition: The patient was in stable condition and
discharged back to rehab for further care.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION AT DISCHARGE: Temperature of 98.6 , blood
pressure of 110/60 , heart rate 98 , respirations 18 , sating 99% on
room air. General exam shows a slightly obese female who is
alert and oriented x4 in no acute distress. Cardiovascular exam
shows a regular rate and rhythm with no murmurs , rubs or gallops.
Neck shows a supple neck with no JVD. Pulmonary exam shows
lungs clear to auscultation bilaterally. Abdominal exam shows a
slightly obese abdomen that is nondistended and nontender with
good bowel sounds. Skin exam shows a midline back scar that is
healing well and nontender with no erythema. Extremity exam
shows no calf tenderness with trace edema.
MEDICATIONS AT DISCHARGE: Tessalon Perles 100 mg p.o. t.i.d.
p.r.n. cough , Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d. , guaifenesin 10 mL p.o.
q.6 h. p.r.n. cough , Lantus 20 units subcu q.p.m. , Insulin
Regular sliding scale q.a.c. and at bedtime , Zydis 5 mg p.o.
nightly , Zydis 5 mg p.o. b.i.d. p.r.n. agitation , oxycodone 5 to
10 mg p.o. q.6 h. p.r.n. pain , Lovenox 40 mg subcu daily.
DISPOSITION: The patient was discharged to rehab for further
care in stable condition.
PENDING TESTS: The patient's thyroid function test should be
followed up.
FOLLOWUP PLANS: The patient has an appointment with Dr. Isaias J Haitz of Gyday Hospital Oncology on 4/18/06 .  Phone number is
424-038-7926. The patient also has a followup appointment with
Dr. Riley Hovick on 11/11/06 .  His phone number is 810-877-5333.
The patient should also followup with primary care physician in
one to two weeks.
eScription document: 5-6527185 CSSten Tel
Dictated By: BRANDEWIE , SCOT
Attending: OLVERA , CHADWICK
Dictation ID 4188440
D: 1/12/06
T: 1/12/06
[report_end]
