RECORD #455228
341963641 | SAUH | 38690622 | | 5625606 | 8/14/2006 12:00:00 AM | BILATERAL PULMONARY EMBOLI | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 8/14/2006 Report Status: Signed
Discharge Date: 6/15/2006
ATTENDING: DOBRICH , SON J. MD
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This is an 85-year-old woman with a
history of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation , type II diabetes , DVTs
in the past , and a right lower lobe lung mass found to be thymoma
on fine needle aspirate biopsy who presents with sharp
right-sided chest pain x1 week , as well as increased dyspnea on
exertion times two days. She denies hemoptysis , cough , fever or
chills. The remainder of her review of systems is negative. She
was seen at her PCP's clinic , and was sent for a PE protocol CT
at an outside hospital , which was positive for bilateral
pulmonary emboli. She has no recent history of immobilization or
surgery.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Paroxysmal atrial fibrillation , first
diagnosed in July of 2006 , type II diabetes , hypertension ,
recurrent urinary tract infections , gout , congestive heart
failure with an EF of 35% , osteoarthritis , right lower lobe mass
shown to be a thymoma by a fine needle aspirate , status post
thymoidectomy in 1977 and history of C. difficile.
MEDICATIONS ON ADMISSION: Lasix 20 mg by mouth daily , glipizide
5 mg by mouth daily , Toprol-XL 100 mg by mouth daily , Actos 50 mg
by mouth daily , Ambien 2.5 mg by mouth nightly p.r.n. insomnia.
ALLERGIES: Clindamycin causes rash. Penicillin causes rash.
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient does not use tobacco. She drinks
three glasses of alcohol per day. She is widowed , and lives at
home in a duplex apartment upstairs from her son-in-law. She has
five children.
FAMILY HISTORY: Significant for mother , father and brother all
of whom died of myocardial infarction.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION ON ADMISSION: Vital Signs: Temperature
96.0 , heart rate 115-150 , blood pressure 110/70 , respiratory rate
18 and oxygen saturation 95% on room air. General: The patient
is in no acute distress , breathing comfortably seated upright.
Neck: Supple. JVP is 15 cm. Lungs: Crackles at the right lung
base. Otherwise , clear to auscultation. Cardiovascular:
Irregularly irregular. No murmurs , rubs or gallops appreciated.
Abdomen: Soft , nontender , nondistended with active bowel sounds.
Extremities: 1+ edema bilaterally , right greater than left.
Extremities warm and well perfused. Neuro: Alert and oriented
x3 , cranial nerves II-XII intact. Nonfocal neurological exam.
Skin: Erythematous lesions on the back , with scaling.
NOTABLE LABORATORY VALUES ON ADMISSION: Sodium 129 , potassium
5.3 , BUN 47 , creatinine 1.4 , glucose 394. White blood count
11.3 , hematocrit 45.7 , platelets 176.
NOTABLE STUDIES: PE protocol CT performed 9/4/06 at outside
hospital: Bilateral pulmonary emboli. Noninvasive vascular
studies of the lower extremities: On 0/29 Partial DVT in
right posterior tibial and right peroneal veins. Total DVT in
right common femoral , right superficial femoral , and right
popliteal veins. Chest x-ray 3/10/06 : Right lower lobe mass
stable from previous. Otherwise , clear. No fractures
appreciated. Echocardiogram in 3/10/06 : EF of 15% , reduced
from prior , although , atrial fibrillation. Global hypokinesis.
Mild mitral regurgitation. Mild tricuspid regurgitation.
Echocardiogram 0/13/06 : Ejection fraction 20-25% , and global
hypokinesis with regional variation. The right ventricular
systolic function mildly reduced. Mild left atrial enlargement.
Mild pre-dilated right atrium. Moderately thickened aortic
valve. Mildly diffusely thickened mitral valve.
PROCEDURES: On 3/10/06 : IVC filter placement without
complication by Dr. Zachary Stovel
HOSPITAL COURSE BY PROBLEM: This is an 85-year-old woman with a
history of prior DVTs and lower lobe lung mass , biopsy shown to
be a thymoma , who presents with bilateral pulmonary emboli and
paroxysmal atrial fibrillation.
Hematology: The patient has bilateral pulmonary emboli as
confirmed by PE protocol CT. The patient was initially
anticoagulated with heparin drip for PTT goal of 60-80 , and was
bridged to Coumadin with an INR goal of 2-2.5. Lower extremity
noninvasive studies showed right leg deep venous thrombosis as
noted above. An IVC filter was placed without complications on
10/20/06. The patient was discharged on a Coumadin dose of 7.5
mg by mouth daily , and her INR will be followed by the Bit University Medical Center Coumadin Clinic ( Dr. Kent Ahlo ) , after
her discharge from rehabilitation.
Cardiovascular: Rhythm: The patient was initially found to be
in atrial fibrillation with a rapid ventricular response , with a
heart rate of approximately 128 beats per minute. This was felt
likely to be secondary to pulmonary embolus. The patient
required both metoprolol and diltiazem for rate and rhythm
control , and was discharged on both of these medications. She
had several episodes of rapid atrial fibrillation throughout her
hospital course , requiring several boluses to metoprolol IV and
diltiazem IV. She was discharged on a regimen of metoprolol and
diltiazem p.o. to maintain her in stable normal sinus.
Pump: The patient had an echocardiogram revealing ejection
fraction of 15% while she was in atrial fibrillation , and
ejection fraction of 25% when the patient was in normal sinus
rhythm. She was diuresed gently with Lasix 20 mg by mouth daily.
She was started on low-dose ACE inhibitor on 4/23/06.
Ischemia: The patient has risk factors for coronary artery
disease , but has no chest pain or significant EKG changes during
this admission. She may be considered for cardiac
catheterization in the future as an outpatient.
Endocrine: The patient has type II diabetes mellitus with a
hemoglobin A1c of 8.2. Oral anti-diabetics were held during this
admission , the patient was given basal and prandial insulin. She
was discharged back on her home diabetes regimen.
Onch: The patient has a right lower lobe lung mass which is
likely thymoma by a fine needle aspirate. The patient was seen
by the Thoracic Surgery Service , as follow up for Dr. Evilsizer
who had seen her in clinic , and depending of the services that
surgery was not recommended at this time until cardiovascular and
pulmonary issues were stabilized. Medical oncology was also
consulted , and it was recommended that chemotherapy would not be
pursued at this time for this patient. Both services recommended
a followup CT scan in several weeks to detect the progression of
this right lower lobe lung mass. The decision of whether or not
to treat this lung mass will be deferred until her pulmonary
embolism , cardiovascular , and pulmonary issues are stabilized.
Neuro: The patient has a history of drinking two to four drinks
per day , but the patient did not have any signs or symptoms of
alcohol withdrawal during this admission.
Fluids , electrolytes and nutrition: The patient was repeated
with electrolytes as necessary. She was given a cardiac and
American Diabetes Association Diet.
Prophylaxis: The patient was initially on heparin , which in turn
was bridged to Coumadin.
The patient was full code during this admission.
PLANS: The patient should have regular blood draws to monitor
her INR level while she is taking Coumadin. This will be managed
by the Sher-pa Meroo Hase General Hospital Coumadin Clinic run by Dr.
Cristobal Buckhanon , phone number 389-227-9900 while the patient is
an outpatient. The patient should have diltiazem weaned off as
tolerated. ACE inhibitor and metoprolol should be titrated
upwards as tolerated by heart rate and blood pressure. The
patient has followup appointments scheduled with Dr. Grant Bayley at Liy Hospital Cardiology on 6/7/07
at 9:40 a.m. , the phone number 897-998-8433. The patient also
has a followup appointment with Dr. Quinton Menjares at the
Ton St.coke Hospital Thoracic Surgery Group on 3/15/07
at 1:00 p.m. Telephone number is 916-568-6061.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Will be dictated in the discharge summary
addendum.
eScription document: 2-0209121 CSSten Tel
Dictated By: DITTMER , RICKY
Attending: SWALES , ANTON R.
Dictation ID 1322193
D: 4/10/06
T: 4/10/06
[report_end]
