RECORD #456788


473695652 | PH | 72845618 | | 3565575 | 2/19/2004 12:00:00 AM | REACTIVE AIRWAY | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 6/17/2004 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 1/0/2004
ATTENDING: BRICE ARMSON M.D.
CHIEF COMPLAINT: Shortness of breath.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS ON ADMISSION: This is a 73-year-old 
female with known coronary artery disease , status post CABG , now
with CHF of 30% and a long history of second hand smoke
inhalation , who presented with shortness of breath. One week
prior to admission , she had had upper respiratory infection
symptoms and with some sick contacts. One day prior to
admission , the patient began with increased shortness of breath
over a 3 to 4-hour period while lying down. She came to the
emergency room where she was found to be wheezing. She did not
have any chest pressure or pain , but she did have some shortness
of breath and a cough productive of white sputum. She had no
wheezing , nausea , vomiting , diarrhea , and no change in her eating
habits. No missed medications. She denied any PND , DOE or
orthopnea , and she had not noticed increased leg edema. In the
emergency department , she was given Atrovent , prednisone , Lasix ,
albuterol nebulizers and Solu-Medrol as it was unknown at the
time whether or not this was a CHF exacerbation or a COPD
exacerbation.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: She was afebrile at 97.5 with a pulse of
71 , blood pressure of 111/63 , and respiratory rate of 18 ,
saturating 98% on 2 liters. Physical examination was more
significant for a DVD at 10 cm. Heart exam was significant for
gallops being absent. No S3 or S4. Respiratory exam was
significant for some wheezes , but no rales however.
ADMISSION LABORATORY: A Chem 7 was significant for hyponitremia
at 132 and a hyperkalemia at 5.4. Her digoxin level was
therapeutic at 1.8. Total bilirubin was 1.8. A BNP was mildly
elevated at 189. First set of enzymes were cardiac enzymes to
rule out MI were negative.
ADMISSION MEDICATIONS: The patient's admission medications were
digoxin 0.25 mg daily , Cozaar 50 mg b.i.d. , Lipitor 80 mg daily ,
Coreg 12.5 mg b.i.d. , spironolactone 12.5 mg daily , aspirin 81 mg
daily , nitroglycerin p.r.n. , and Lasix.
ALLERGIES: Included Captopril , which gave her a cough.
SOCIAL HISTORY: She lived with family. Denied any drinking and
smoking , but however did have significant second hand smoke
inhalation history by her husband having been a heavy smoker
during their many years of marriage.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY: Significant for coronary artery disease in
which she had an acute myocardial infarction in 1995 for which a
stent was placed in the LAD. She then had an instant V stenosis
and had then a two-vessel CABG , which was the SVG to the LAD , and
the SVG to the RCA. In 1997 , she had a SVG , LAD stent to
stenosis to then to VStent. In 1988 she had a third SVG LAD
stent placed and an ICD was placed for a low VF and presumably
arrhythmias. The cardiac risk factors include hypertension ,
hyperlipidemia , and smoke inhalation history.
She was admitted for shortness of breath , presumes likely
secondary to a CHF or reactive airway disease precipitated by an
upper respiratory tract infection.
HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEMS:
1. Cardiovascular: Ischemia. The patient was cycled through
three sets of enzymes , which were all negative. The patient did
not have chest pressure or pain at any moment of her
hospitalization and did not need any nitroglycerin. There were
no EKG changes. She was continued on her statin , beta blocker ,
and ACE inhibitor , and aspirin. Cardiovascular pump. The
patient oscillated between the mildly fluid overloaded to
euvolemic. She was maintained on Lasix , and did well that way.
The patient received an echo on March , 2004 , which showed
normal left ventricular cavity size and wall thickness with
overall systolic function being moderately in pair with ejection
fraction of 35%. There was severe hypokinesis and akinesis
involving the mid distal septum apex and distal inferior and
lateral walls , and there was also abnormal septal motion
consistent with intraventricular conduction delay. An ICP was
seen to be in place and the aortic valve was mildly calcified.
The left atrium was mildly enlarged. There was also moderate
tricuspid regurgitation with velocity of 2.9 m/second detecting
pulmonary artery systolic pressures of 33mmHg. It was determined
that since 5/26 there had been no significant interval change.
Rhythm: The patient was in normal sinus rhythm with an ICD
placed. There were no issues.
2. Pulmonary: Initially when the patient was admitted with her
significant coronary history , she was being treated like a CHF
exacerbation. However , despite her being relatively refractory
treatment it was decided to increase the treatments for a
possible COPD exacerbation. In this way , she was receiving
Duonebs and albuterol nebulizers 2-2 hours alternating and it was
decided to change her from p.o. prednisone to 60 mg p.o. q.a.m.
In addition , Tessalon Perles and guaifenesin was added. Finally ,
azithromycin was added so as to possibly treat any atypical
pneumonia as the patient had only some interstitial pattern on
her chest x-ray , and did not have any focal area of
consolidation.
3. Endocrine: When the patient was admitted , she was maintained
on her home dose regimen for diabetes mellitus. However , when
being admitted she was given p.o. prednisone for COPD
exacerbation , and therefore , had uncontrolled blood sugars.
Because a finger stick blood glucose and insulin sliding scale
did not fully control her blood glucose. She at one point began
to have an non-gap metabolic acidosis. Anticipating possible
decay , she was started on regular lab draws and insulin drips.
Her gap promptly closed and the patient was , otherwise ,
asymptomatic. She did not have any potassium , fluid or other
complications. Throughout she was also receiving NPH insulin in
the a.m. and p.m.
The patient was discharged to follow with her primary care
physician , and the patient received at home VNA services.
DISCHARGE MEDICATIONS: Her discharge medications included
1. NPH insulin10 units in the a.m. and 4 units in the p.m.
2. Flovent , Tessalon Perles and guaifenesin.
3. Zocor 40 mg daily.
4. Coreg 12.5 mg b.i.d.
5. Digoxin 0.125 daily.
6. Cozaar 50 mg b.i.d.
7. Azithromycin 25 mg daily.
8. Lasix 20 mg p.o. daily.
9. Combivent inhaler.
eScription document: 8-3033929 ISSten Tel
Dictated By: LUEKER , DOMINIQUE
Attending: JOSEPHPAULINE , VINCENZO
Dictation ID 0251211
D: 6/22/04
T: 2/8/04
[report_end]
