RECORD #459401


544459454 | HC | 77837250 | | 653093 | 5/29/1993 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 0/16/1993 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date: 4/5/1993
DISCHARGE DIAGNOSIS: LEFT HEMISPHERE CEREBROVASCULAR ACCIDENT
SECONDARY TO OCCLUSIONS OF THE MIDDLE
CEREBRAL ARTERY
SECONDARY DIAGNOSES: 1. ATRIAL SEPTAL DEFECT
2. PROSTATIC HYPERTROPHY
3. DEGENERATIVE JOINT DISEASE
4. UMBILICAL HERNIA
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: Mr. Dorich is a 66-year-old right
handed gentleman with no previous
admissions to Tiftver Community , who presented on
24 of June , after having fallen out of bed at about 5:45 in the
morning. He was noted to be mute at the time and was unable to
move the right arm and leg. He was brought by ambulance to the
Emergency Room , where much of his motor deficits resolved , as well
as some of his speech deficit. This occurred within an hour.
There was no loss of consciousness associated with the fall , and
the patient was not noted to have any unusual movements or
verbalizations , or tongue biting , or incontinence. He was
"stunned" for a minute ( by the report of his son ) just after
falling. The patient denied headaches , vertigo , double vision ,
hoarseness or numbness , or nausea , vomiting , or palpitations. He
had had no previous neurological symptoms prior to this event.
There was also no chest pain. There was no history of high blood
pressure or heart disease , or recent fever and chills or sweats.
He had been feeling quite well up until this point. PAST MEDICAL
HISTORY: Significant for an umbilical hernia , which had been
present for many years. He also suffered from prostatism. In the
last year , he had regained much of the weight that he had lost
previous on special diet. SOCIAL HISTORY: He did not smoke nor
did he use alcohol or elicit drugs. There was no significant
family history of heart disease or strokes.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: The patient is a severely obese gentlemen ,
who had a blood pressure of 115/59 in the
right arm; with a respiratory rate of 12; heart rate of 72. He was
afebrile. HEENT: Remarkable for a slight bruise on the right
temple where the patient hit his head during the fall. The neck
showed no signs of meningismus. The carotids were poorly palpated
secondary to the thickness of his neck. The cardiovascular
examination revealed regular rate and rhythm without any murmurs or
rubs. There were no bruits. The lungs were clear. The abdomen
revealed umbilical hernia , but was otherwise benign. The
extremities had full pulses throughout , and a trace of edema.
There was no calf tenderness noted. On neurological examination ,
the patient was oriented x 3. He was now able to speak , and was
quite alert. He could register 3 words forward and 2 words
backwards. He could count from 20 to 1. His language was abnormal
with waxing and weaning worsening of functions. His meaning was
clear , but he did make errors , calling a pen and pencil. His
speech was mostly fluent but there were quite a few paraphasias.
There was decreased comprehension and decreased repetitions and
there was one prominent error in reading in which he repeatedly
read the "leaf" as "deaf". There was no right/left confusion , and
the patient was able to write. There was no neglect noted.
Long-term memory was essentially intact and there were a few errors
with short term tasks. Cranial nerve examination revealed full
visual fields to confrontation with sharp discs and no evidence of
cholesterol emboli. The discs were sharp. The pupils equal round
and reactive to light and accommodation. Conjugate eye movements
in all directions. There was full sensation on the face to pin
prick. There was a slight decrease nasal labial fold on the right
and some decreased hearing on the right. The palate moved upward
bilaterally and the sternocleidomastoid was strong. The tongue
protruded to the midline. Motor examination revealed normal tone
throughout and to formal testing the patient had 5/5 power in all
extremities except the right iliopsoas which demonstrated 5-/5
power. There was mild right sided drift of the upper extremities.
The patient had sensory decrease to vibration on the right lower
extremity. Pin prick and light touch were within normal limits , as
was joint position sense. The patient was mildly uncoordinated
with slowing of rapid alternating movements in the right upper
extremity. There was normal finger-nose-finger maneuver and
heel-knee-shin maneuvers in both the upper and lower extremities
bilaterally. The gait was not assessed initially ( but during the
rest of the hospital course , was noted to be quite normal ).
LABORATORY DATA: The patient had fully normal electrolytes with a
glucose of 105; sodium 139; potassium 4.4; white
count 7.5; hemoglobin 13.5; hematocrit 39.8; platelets 225; PT and
PTT were 12.6 and 28.4 respectively; calcium was normal. Liver
function tests were normal. EKG showed normal sinus rhythm without
any signs of ischemia. Carotid ultrasounds were done immediately ,
and the patient was noted to have normal carotids without
significant stenosis. A CT scan was obtained without contrast ,
showing evidence of an early left frontal parietal infarction on
the left. There was no evidence of hemorrhage , and there was no
mass effect noted.
HOSPITAL COURSE: The patient was admitted to the Neurology Service
and was started on Heparin , as it was felt that
his event had most likely been an embolic event. During the first
day , his speech waxed and wained , and by 2 of the hospitalization ,
his speech was clearly abnormal with marked deficits in speech
generation with many pauses and profound word finding difficulty.
Repetition and comprehension were somewhat better than the initial
presentation. A repeat CT scan was obtained showing no evidence
for bleeding. This CT scan , now 3 days from the initial event ,
showed an acute infarct in the posterior inferior left frontal lobe
and posterior temporal lobe , and extending into the sylvian
fissure. Again , there was no evidence of hemorrhage or mass
effect , and the patient was continued on Heparin.
Because the patient was unable to fit into the MRI scanner at
Vaplacea Memorial Medical Center , he had a diagnostic MRI done at the
Skilli Memorial Health Center , and this revealed , in addition to the original
lesion noted on CT scan , a second lesion , corresponding with an
occlusion of the posterior division of the middle cerebral artery.
This lesion was in the left parietal region. By the end of the
hospitalization , the patient's aphasia was quite clearly a very
mixed aphasia , with elements of poor comprehension , as well as
difficulties with fluency.
An investigation as to the cause of the patient's stroke was
initiated with an MR angiogram of the cerebral vasculature , which
revealed no significant carotid or posterior circulation defects.
An echocardiogram was done revealing normal ventricular function
with an ejection fraction of 55% without any wall motion
abnormality or thrombi noted. It was felt that the patient's
presentation warranted further review , and a transesophageal
echocardiogram was also done revealing an atrial septal defect , as
evidenced by significant positive bubble study. The patient was
therefore started on Coumadin. While the workup was being done ,
the patient also had an EEG that revealed abnormality consistent
with the 2 infarcts noted on MRI. These were not felt , however , to
be definite seizure phenomena. Coagulation studies were done
showing normal cardiolipin. Protein C was slightly elevated
protein S , a normal ANA , and a sed rate that was slightly elevated
at 26.
The patient was seen by the Speech Pathologist , and therapy was
begun , and this will continue as an outpatient.
The patient continued to have difficulties with voiding , with a
post void residual of 450 after voiding 400. He was seen by the
Urologist and was noted to have a quite large prostate. The PSA
was 14.6. The patient opted not to have surgical intervention
during this hospitalization or in near future. He was started on
Cardura at 1 mg q hs , which was slowly increased to 4 mg q hs , as
medical intervention for decreasing sphincter tone.
The patient also had some mild pain in the left knee with minimal
effusion , that was noted by x-ray. There was no evidence for
fracture. There was a small increase in his uric acid. He
responded quite nicely to Ibuprofen.
After day 3 , the patient's speech stabilized and gradually
improved , all be it very , very , slowly. He was therapeutic on his
Coumadin at the time of discharge , with his hopes that his INR will
be in the mid 2 range ( 2.3-2.8 ).
MEDICATIONS ON DISCHARGE: 1. Cardura 2 mg po q hs x 2 nights ,
then 4 mg po q hs every night
thereafter. 2. Coumadin 5.0 mg q hs to be monitored and adjusted
as needed in the near future. FOLLOW-UP CARE: The patient was
discharged in good condition to his home with the following
follow-up appointments: 1. Primary M.D. , Dr. Giovanni Behanna , at the
ON PHPU VALLEY HEALTH Clinic on 1 of October , at 10:20 am. 2. Dr. Maendel at the
Urology Clinic on 16 of May , at 3:30 pm. 3. Dr. Matthew Prokup in
the Neurology Clinic on 17 of October , at 2:00 pm. 4. The patient will
continued to receive speech therapy at his home through the
visiting nurses association. CONDITION ON DISCHARGE: He is
discharged in good condition with full 5/5 strength in all 4
extremities , to his home.
Dictated By: ANTONY EDE , M.D. KA2
Attending: DANIAL H. HOMMEL , M.D. LD65  VT045/8015
Batch: 8750 Index No. KHOYL9890X D: 1/10/93
T: 6/14/93
CC: 1. DR. JAE BULGIN , UPA TOWNA HOSPITAL
[report_end]
