RECORD #466149


206771600 | BCMC | 43552578 | | 2999539 | 1/9/2004 12:00:00 AM | Discharge Summary | Signed | DIS | Admission Date: 1/9/2004 Report Status: Signed

Discharge Date:
ATTENDING: GROVER SCHECHTMAN MD
PRINCIPAL DIAGNOSES: Urinary tract infection and lower extremity
edema.
LIST OF PROBLEMS AND DIAGNOSES: Atrial fibrillation , venous
stasis.
HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: This is an 87-year-old woman with a
history of atrial fibrillation , congestive heart failure and
lower extremity edema who was admitted to J.alva Health with increased calf swelling , weight gain , leg pain and
malaise. Over the past few months prior to admission , the
patient had noted a gradual weight gain to about a total of 20
pounds in two months. She had noted an increase in her chronic
lower extremity edema with increasing pain over the last moth
such that she has been taking Percocet for the pain. For the two
to three days prior to admission , the patient complained of
feeling "weak" and unable to get up out of bed due to fatigue and
general malaise. She denies any increasing shortness of breath.
She has had no chest pain , no paroxysmal nocturnal dyspnea. She
always sleeps with the head of her bed elevated , but generally
has not noted any problem with lying flat. The patient has had
some complaint issues with her torsemide in the past due to lack
of ability to pay for medications; however , she states she has
been taking her medications as directed in the weeks prior to
admission. She has had no cough , no fevers and chills. No
dysuria , no diarrhea , no nausea or vomiting.
REVIEW OF SYSTEMS: Positive only for nasal congestion and
chronic constipation.
The patient presented to the emergency department with her chief
complaint of weakness and increasing edema. In the emergency
department , she had lower extremity non-invasive ultrasound
studies , which were negative for DVT and a urinalysis revealed
UTI. She was treated in the ED with 500-mg levofloxacin and
40-mg IV Lasix , which resulted in a 1700 cc urine output. Of
note , the patient does have a Lasix allergy , which gives her rash
and GI upset. She does tolerate torsemide. Lasix was given in
the ED before it was known the patient have Lasix allergy.
PAST MEDICAL HISTORY:
1. Atrial fibrillation onset 1986 , on Coumadin.
2. Pacemaker single chamber.
3. Postherpetic neurologia.
4. GERD.
5. Hypercholesterolemia.
6. Obesity.
7. Gout.
8. Venous stasis lower extremities.
9. Echocardiogram 1/28/04: EF 55% low normal left ventricular
function.
ALLERGIES:
1. Quinidine causing rash.
2. Lasix causing rash and GI upset.
3. Penicillin reaction unknown.
4. Erythromycin reaction unknown.
MEDICATIONS: Medications at admission include:
1. Lopressor 25 b.i.d.
2. Coumadin 5 mg q.h.s.
3. Torsemide 20 mg p.o. q.d.
4. Percocet p.r.n.
5. Senna two tablets b.i.d.
6. Colace two tablets b.i.d.
SOCIAL HISTORY: Social history notable for the fact that the
patient lives alone; however , she does get help with meals and
housework , her family is involved.
PHYSICAL EXAMINATION: At admission was notable for vital as
follows , 98.2 , heart rate 81 , blood pressure 114/60 , respirations
20 , oxygen saturation 98% on room air. The patient was a
tired-appearing woman sitting in bed in no acute distress. HEET
exam notable for a nonreactive right pupil. Jugular venous
pulsation was visible at approximately 8 cm. Heart exam revealed
regular rate and rhythm with normal S1 and S2 with a 2 out of 6
systolic murmur heard at the left upper sternal border with no
radiation. Neck exam revealed jugular venous pulsations at
approximately 8 cm. Heart exam reveals regular rate and rhythm
with normal S1 , S2 and 2 out of 6 systolic murmur at the left
upper sternal border with no radiation. Lungs were clear to
auscultation bilaterally. Extremities revealed extensive
bilateral edema with chronic venous stasis pigmentary changes and
brawny erythremia of the lower shins. DP and PT pulses were not
palpable , but feet were 1.
LABORATORY DATA: Labs at admission were notable for creatinine
of 1.3 , which was consistent with her baseline , creatinine and
the white blood count of 11.5. Hematocrit of 38.3 also
consistent with her baseline. INR was 2.8 and PTT was 48.1.
Cardiac enzymes were negative. BNP was 232. Urinalysis revealed
20 to 25 white blood cells per high-powered field on analysis of
sediment. Chest x-ray revealed persistent mild cardiomegaly ,
some chronic intrastitial markings and a single lead pacemaker.
EKG was completely V-paced rate of 80.
HOSPITAL COURSE BY SYSTEM: In summary , this is an 87-year-old
woman admitted with leg pain and swelling and weight gain likely
secondary to chronic venous stasis and with general malaise due
to urinary tract infection.
1. Infectious disease , urinary tract infection. The patient was
treated with a 3-day course of levofloxacin and a urine culture
was sent , which had no growth at the time of discharge , but was
not yet finalized. Final results pending and discharged.
2. Cardiovascular , the patient has symptoms of total body volume
overloaded in her lower extremities; however , she had symptoms of
left-sided heart failure and it is likely the swelling in her
legs is more secondary to chronic venous stasis than to
right-sided heart failure per se. She was treated with diuresis
with an increased dose of torsemide 40 gm IV b.i.d. was placed on
the low-salt diet and did have a total diuresis of approximately
two liters over the course of her hospital stay with decrease in
swelling of the lower extremity. She was also given TED hose to
compress and mobilize fluid and was maintained with her legs
elevated for anytime that she was resting in bed or in the chair.
The patient was also maintained on her usual cardiovascular
medications including Lopressor and coumadin.
3. Heme. The patient was on Coumadin with the therapeutic INR.
Her lower extremity noninvasive studies were negative for DVT.
4. Cord status. The patient's cord status is do not
resuscitate , do not intubate.
5. The patient's final disposition was still pending at the time
of dication. She will be discharged to either to home with
services or to rehab pending final evaluation by physical therapy
regarding her safety with ambulation and mobility at home. An
addendum to discharge summary with final disposition and follow
up will be dictated.
MEDICATIONS AT DISCHARGE: Medications at discharge are as
follows:
1. Colace 100 mg p.o. b.i.d.
2. Lopressor 25 mg p.o. b.i.d.
3. Senna two tablets p.o. b.i.d.
4. Coumadin 5 mg p.o. q.h.s.
5. Levofloxacin 250 gm p.o. q.d. for a total of three doses.
6. Torsemide 20 mg p.o. q.d.
7. Lac-Hydrin 12% topical b.i.d.
8. Oxycodone 5 to 10 mg p.o. q.4h. p.r.n. pain.
eScription document: 6-0419067 CSSten Tel
CC: Jarod Wolbeck M.D.
ANDSR C HOSPITAL
Virginia
Dictated By: CHARTIER , KELLEY
Attending: JOHNSEY , QUENTIN
Dictation ID 2782195
D: 11/16/04
T: 10/25/04
[report_end]
